.TH exports 5nfs
.SH NAME
exports \- defines NFS file systems to be exported
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/exports
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "NFS exported file systems"  ""  "NFS exported file systems \(em \fLexportfs\fP"
The /etc/exports
file describes the local file systems and directories
that can be mounted by
remote hosts through the use of the NFS protocol.
The
.PN exports 
file can also be used to restrict access to a particular set of remote
systems.
The
.PN mount
request daemon mountd(8nfs) accesses the
.PN exports
file each time it receives a mount request from an NFS client.
.PP
Each entry in the /etc/exports 
file consists of a file system or directory
name followed by a list of identifiers
that define which remote hosts can mount that particular file system
or directory.
.\" By convention,
.\" each file system name must be explicitly defined starting
.\" at the root directory of the file system.
The identifiers listed beside each file system or directory name
can be either netgroup names or host names.
When the
.PN mountd
daemon receives a mount request from a client,
it looks up each identifier,
first in the /etc/netgroups file,
and second in the /etc/hosts
file.
When it finds a match,
.PN mountd
makes that file system or directory available to the requesting client.
.PP
The 
.PN exports
file format is defined as left-justified file system names,
followed by any amount of white space,
followed by the list of identifiers,
each separated by a space.
A blank identifier list beside a file system or directory
name tells the mount daemon
.PN mountd
to export that particular file system or directory
to anyone requesting it.
A number sign, '#',
anywhere on a line specifies the beginning of a
comment extending to the end of the line.
White space in the left-most
position of a line specifies a continuation line.
.PP
Each file system must be explicitly defined;
exporting only the root, '/' will not allow
clients to mount /usr.
Exporting only /usr will not allow clients to
mount /usr/local.
In addition,
you can export individual directories within a file system.
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX 0
/usr      alpha beta gamma  # export /usr to these hosts
/usr/staff/doe  beta        # export this directory to beta, only
/usr      clients           # export to all hosts in netgroup 'clients'
/usr/local                  # export to the world
/usr2     erie suez grand   # export /usr2 to these hosts
.EE
.SH FILES
/etc/exports
.SH SEE ALSO
hosts(5), mountd(8nfs), netgroup(5yp)
.br
Network Management Guide
