.TH hosts.equiv 5yp
./" Last edited by Jeff J. 6/24/86
.SH NAME
hosts.equiv \- list of trusted hosts
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "hosts.equiv file"  ""  "\fLhosts.equiv\fP \(em trusted hosts list"
.IX  "trusted hosts list"  ""  "trusted hosts list \(em \fLhosts.equiv\fP"
The 
.PN hosts.equiv
file resides in the /etc
directory and contains a list of trusted hosts.
When an rlogin(1c) or rsh(1c)
request from a host listed in the 
.PN hosts.equiv
file is made, 
and the initiator of the request has an entry in /etc/passwd,
further validity checking is unrequired.
Thus,
.PN rlogin
does not prompt for a password, and
.PN rsh
completes successfully.
When a remote user is in the local 
.PN hosts.equiv
file, that user is defined as equivalenced to a local user
with the same user ID.
.PP
The format of
.PN hosts.equiv
is a list of names, as in:
.nf
.I host1
.I host2
.I +@group1
.I -@group2
.fi
.PP
A line consisting of a host name
means that anyone logging in from that host is trusted.
A line consisting of
.I +@group
means that all hosts in that network group are trusted.
A line consisting of
.I \-@group
means that hosts in that group are not trusted.
Programs scan the
.PN hosts.equiv
file sequentially, and stop when they encounter the appropriate entry 
(either positive for hostname and +@ entries,
or negative for \-@ entries).
A line consisting of a single +
means that everyone is trusted.
.PP
The
.PN hosts.equiv
file has the same format as .rhosts
file.
When a user
executes
.PN rlogin
or
.PN rsh,
the .rhosts file from that user's 
home directory is concatenated onto the 
.PN hosts.equiv
file for permission checking.
If a user is excluded by a minus entry from
.PN hosts.equiv
but included in .rhosts,
that user is considered trusted.
In the special case when the user is root,
only the .rhosts file is checked.
.PP
It is possible to have two entries,
separated by a single space on one line.
If the remote host is equivalenced by the first entry,
the user named by the second entry is allowed to specify any name to the
.B \-l
flag (provided that name is in the /etc/passwd file).
For example:
.EX
suez john
.EE
allows John
to log in from suez.  The normal use would be
to put this entry in the .rhosts
file in the home directory for
.I bill.
Then John
can log in as
.I bill
when coming from suez without having to supply a password.
The second entry can be a netgroup.  For example:
.EX
+@group1 +@group2
.EE
This entry allows any user in
.I group2
coming from a host in
.I group1
to log in as anyone.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/hosts.equiv
/etc/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup
/etc/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup.byuser
/etc/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup.byhost
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
rlogin(1c), rsh(1c), netgroup(5yp)
