.TH L.cmds 5
.SH NAME
L.cmds \- allowable remote execution commands
.SH SYNTAX
.B /usr/lib/uucp/L.cmds
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN uucp
utility uses the
.PN L.cmds
file to determine what commands can be executed by 
remote systems with the
uux(1c) command.
The
.B uucp
utility first looks in the 
USERFILE(5)
file to find the execution level defined there for
the remote system.  Then
.PN uucp
looks in the
.PN L.cmds
file.  The remote system can execute any command
whose execution level as defined
in 
.PN L.cmds
is less than or equal to the execution level for the system
as defined in
USERFILE(5).
The format of the 
.PN L.cmds
file is:
.IP "" 1i
\fIcommand \fRX\fI#\fR
.IP \fIcommand\fR .7i
An ULTRIX system command or application program.
.IP X\fI#\fR .7i
The execution level associated with
.IR command .
The number \fI#\fR can range from 0 through 9.  If the
X field is omitted, then 9 is the default.  If X is
specified but \fI#\fR is omitted, then 0 is the default,
enabling any system to use this command.
.PP
You can also specify a line in the 
.PN L.cmds
file to define the paths used to search for
commands:
.IP "" 1i
PATH=\fIpath1\fR:\fIpath2\fR:...
.IP \fIpath1\fR .7i
The first directory examined for commands.
.IP \fIpath2\fR .7i
The second directory examined for commands.
.nf
.br
     .
     .
     .
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX 
rmail X1
rnews X1
uux X9
.EE
The above example would allow remote systems defined in the
local system's USERFILE with an execution level of 1 or higher
to execute the commands rmail and rnews.  Only remote systems
with an execution level of 9 would be able to execute uux.
.SH SEE ALSO
uux(1c)
System Management Guide
