.TH netgroup 5yp
.SH NAME
netgroup \- list of network groups
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN netgroup
file defines network wide groups,
used for permission checking when doing
remote mounts, remote logins, and remote shells.
For remote mounts, the information in the 
.PN netgroup
file is used to classify machines;
for remote logins and remote shells,
it is used to classify users.
Each line of the
.PN netgroup
file defines a group and has the format:
.IP
groupname member1...member_n
.PP
Each member is either another group name, or a combination
of the hostname, username, and domainname.
.PP
Any of the three fields can be empty,
in which case it signifies a wild card.
For instance,
to define a group to which everyone belongs, the following entry
could appear in the 
.PN netgroup
file:
.IP
universal (,,)
.PP
Field names that begin with something other
than a letter, digit or underscore
(such as ``-'') work in the opposite way.
For example:
.IP
justmachines	(analytica,-,suez)
.br
justpeople	(-,babbage,suez)
.PP
The machine
.I analytica
belongs to the group
.I justmachines
in the domain
.I suez,
but no users belong to it.
Similarly, the user
.I babbage
belongs to the group 
.I justpeople
in the domain
.I suez,
but no machines belong to it. 
.PP
Network groups are part of the yellow pages data base,
and are accessed through these files:
.nf
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.dir
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.pag
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.byuser.dir
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.byuser.pag
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.byhost.dir
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.byhost.pag
.fi
These files can be created from /etc/netgroup using makedbm(8yp).
.SH FILES
/etc/netgroup
.br
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.dir
.br
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.pag
.br
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.byuser.dir
.br
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.byuser.pag
.br
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.byhost.dir
.br
/etc/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netgroup.byhost.pag
.SH SEE ALSO
getnetgrent(3yp), makedbm(8yp), ypserv(8yp)
