.TH passwd 5yp
./" Last edited by Jeff J. 6/24/86 
.SH NAME
passwd \- password file description with the Yellow Pages service implemented.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN passwd
file stores initial login information, including passwords
for each user in the system.
Regardless of whether or not the system has the Yellow Pages service
implemented, the
.PN passwd
file contains the
following information:
.HP 10
name (login name, contains no upper case)
.br
.ns
.HP 10
encrypted password
.br
.ns
.HP 10
numerical user ID
.br
.ns
.HP 10
numerical group ID
.br
.ns
.HP 10
user's real name, office, extension, home phone.
.br
.ns
.HP 10
initial working directory
.br
.ns
.HP 10
program to use as Shell
.PP
The name may contain `&', meaning insert the login name.
This information is set by the
chfn(1)
command and used by the
finger(1) command.
.PP
This is an ASCII file.  Each field within each user's entry
is separated from the next by a colon.
Each user is separated from the next by a new-line.
If the password field is null, no password is demanded;
if the shell field is null, the system defaults to the /bin/sh
shell.
.PP
This file resides in the /etc
directory.
Because of the encrypted
passwords, it can and does have general read
permission and can be used, for example,
to map numerical user ID's to names.
.PP
Appropriate precautions mst be taken to lock the /etc/passwd
file against simultaneous changes if it is to be edited with a text editor;
vipw(8) does the necessary locking.
.PP
In a Yellow Pages environment, the
.PN passwd
file can also have a line beginning with a plus (+),
which means to incorporate entries from the yellow pages data base.
There are three styles of + entries:
by itself, + means to insert the entire contents
of the yellow pages password file at that point;
.I +name
means to insert the entry (if any) for
.I name
from the yellow pages at that point;
.I +@name
means to insert the entries for all members of the network group
.I name
at that point.
If a + entry has a non-null password, directory, gecos, or shell field,
they will overide what is contained in the yellow pages.
The numerical user ID and group ID fields cannot be overridden.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Here is a sample /etc/passwd
file:
.IP
.nf
root:q.mJzTnu8icF.:0:10:God:/:/bin/csh
jcj:6k/7KCFRPNVXg:508:10:JC Javert:/usr2/jcj:/bin/csh
+john:
+@documentation:no-login:
+:::Guest
.fi
.LP
In this example, there are specific entries for users
.I root
and
.I jcj,
in case the yellow pages are temporarily out of service.
Alternatively, a user may need specific login information on a given
system that differs from the information contained in the yellow pages
map for that user.
The user, john
will have his password entry in the yellow pages
incorporated without change;
anyone in the netgroup
.I documentation
will have their password field disabled,
and anyone else will be able to log in with their usual password,
shell, and home directory, but with a gecos field of
.I Guest.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chfn(1), finger(1), login(1),
passwd(1), crypt(3), getpwent(3), group(5),
adduser(8), vipw(8)
