.TH rmtab 5nfs
./" Last edited by Jeff J. 6/19/86 
.SH NAME
rmtab \- Table of local file systems mounted by remote NFS clients.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rmtab file"  ""  "\fLrmtab\fP \(em remote mounted file system table"
The
.I rmtab
file resides in the
.I /etc
directory and contains a list of all remote hosts that have mounted
local file systems using the NFS protocols.
Whenever a client performs a remote mount, the server machine's mount daemon
makes an entry in the server machine's
.I rmtab
file.
The 
.I umount
command removes remotely-mounted file system entries.
The 
.I "umount \-a"
command broadcasts to all servers, and informs them that they should remove
all entries from
.I rmtab
created by the sender of the broadcast message.
By placing a
.I "umount \-a"
command in
.I /etc/rc.boot,
.I rmtab
tables on NFS servers can be purged of entries made by a crashed
client, who, upon rebooting, did not remount the same file systems that
it had before the system crashed.  The 
.I rmtab 
table is a series of lines of the form:
.IP
hostname:directory
.PP
This table is used only to preserve information between crashes,
and is read only by
.MS mountd 8nfs
when it starts up.
The 
.I mountd
daemon keeps an in-core table,
which it uses to handle requests from programs like
.MS showmount 1nfs
and
.MS shutdown 8 .
.SH FILES
/etc/rmtab
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Although the
.I rmtab
table is close to the truth,
it may contain erroneous information if NFS client machines fail to execute
umount -a when they reboot.

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
.MS showmount 1nfs
Display local file systems mounted by remote hosts.
.TP
.MS mountd 8nfs
NFS mount daemon
.TP
.MS mount 8nfs
Mount or unmount a file system with NFS implemented.
.TP
.MS shutdown 8
Shutdown the system
