.\" Last modified by MJT on 27-Aug-85  1115
.\"  Fixed whatis problem, added tm line
.\"  This file last edited by Carolyn Belman, July, 1985.
.TH ttys 5
.SH NAME
ttys \- terminal initialization data
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The /etc/ttys
file contains information used by various
routines to initialize and control the use of terminal 
special files.  This file is created when the system
is installed, and can be updated at any time.
.PP
Each terminal 
special file (
/dev/ttyxx
), has a line in the
.B ttys
file.  Each line contains 
several fields.  Fields are separated by tabs or spaces.  A field
with more than one word should be enclosed in quotes.  Blank
lines and comments can appear anywhere in the file; comments
begin with a # character and are terminated by a newline character.
Unspecified fields default to the empty string or zero,
as appropriate.
.PP
The format of each line is as follows:
.PP
.RS
\fIname command type flag1 flag2\fR ...
.RE
.PP
where:
.IP \fIname\fR 1i
is the name of the special file for the terminal in the /dev
directory. Some examples are:
.EX
console
ttyd0
ttyd1
.EE
.IP \fIcommand\fR 1i
is the command to be executed 
each time the terminal is initialized.  This can happen
when the system is booted, or when the superuser adds 
new terminals to the
.PN ttys
file and initializes the new terminals. 
The command is usually
.MS getty 8
, which performs such tasks as baud-rate recognition,
reading the login name, and calling
.MS login 1 . 
It can be, however, any command you wish, such as the
startup command for a window system terminal emulator, or
a command to maintain other daemon processes.
.IP \fItype\fR 1i
is the type of terminal normally connected to the terminal
special file.  You can find the possible types by examining
the 
.PN /etc/termcap
file on your system.  The types available are given as
the third field in
entries in that file.  Some examples are:
.EX
vt100
vt200
dialup
.EE
.IP \fIflags\fR 1i
are the flags to be set in the
.PN ty_status 
or
.PN ty_window
fields of the structure returned by the 
.MS getttyent 3
routine.  If the line ends in a comment, the
comment is included in the
.PN ty_comment
field of this structure.
.IP "" 1i
These fields are used by the
.MS init 8
command that is executed when terminals
are initialized.
.IP "" 1i
The 
.PN ty_status
flags are:
.RS
.IP \f(CWon\fR 1i
Sets the TTY_ON bit in the
.MS getttyent 3
.PN ty_status
field.  This enables logins for this terminal.
.IP "" 1i
The default if this flag is not set is that logins
are disabled for the terminal.
.IP \f(CWoff\fR 1i
Clears the TTY_ON bit in the
.MS getttyent 3
.PN ty_status
field.  This disables logins for this terminal.
.IP \f(CWsecure\fR 1i
Sets the TTY_SECURE bit in the 
.MS getttyent 3
.PN ty_status
field.  This allows the root user to log in on this
terminal.  (The \f(CWon\fR flag should also be set.)
.IP "" 1i
The default if this flag is not set is that the
root user cannot log in on this terminal.
.IP \f(CWnomodem\fR 1i
Sets the TTY_LOCAL bit in the
.MS getttyent 3
.PN ty_status
field.  The line will ignore modem signals.  This is the
default if neither the \f(CWmodem\fR nor \f(CWnomodem\fR flag
is set.
.IP \f(CWmodem\fR 1i
Clears the TTY_LOCAL bit in the
.MS getttyent 3
.PN ty_status
field.  The line will recognize modem signals.
.IP "" 1i
The default if this flag is not set is \f(CWnomodem\fR.  That is,
the line will not recognize modem signals.
.IP \f(CWshared\fR 1i
Sets the TTY_SHARED bit in the
.MS getttyent 3
.PN ty_status
field.  The line can be used for both incoming and
outgoing connections.
.IP "" 1i
The default if this flag is not set is that the
line cannot be used for incoming and outgoing
connections.
.RE
.IP "" 1i
The 
.PN ty_window
flag is:
.RS
.IP \f(CWwindow="\fIstring\f(CW"\fR 1.25i
The quoted \fIstring\fR is a window system process
that
.MS init 8
will maintain for the terminal line.
.RE
.KS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.KS
The following example permits the root user to log in
on the console at 1200 baud:
.EX
console "/etc/getty std.1200" vt100 on secure
.EE
.KE
.KS
This example allows dialup at 1200 baud without root
login:
.EX
ttyd0 "/etc/getty d1200" dialup on
.EE
.KE
These two examples allow login at 9600 baud with two
different terminal
types:  hp2621-nl and plugboard.
.EX
tty00 "/etc/getty std.9600" hp2621-nl on
ttyH1 "/etc/getty std.9600" plugboard on
.EE
These two examples show network pseudo terminals, which
should not have
.PN getty
enabled.
.EX
ttyp0 none network
ttyp1 none network off
.EE
This example shows a terminal emulator and window-system
startup entry and should be typed all on one line.
.EX
ttyv0 "/usr/bin/xterm -L -r -i -fn 9x15 =80x24+0-0 unix:0"
xterm on secure window="/usr/bin/X 0 -0 #000000 -1 #FFFFFF"
.EE
This example shows an example of an entry for an lta device:
.EX
tty01 "/etc/getty 2" vt100 on modem secure # LAT
.EE
.SH FILES
.IP /etc/ttys 1i
The full pathname for the file
.SH SEE ALSO
login(1), getttyent(3), gettytab(5), init(8), getty(8) 
