.TH USERFILE 5
.SH NAME
USERFILE \- defines uucp security
.SH SYNTAX
.B /usr/lib/uucp/USERFILE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B uucp
utility uses the USERFILE to establish what access a
remote system may have to the local system.  
An entry should exist for each system; if no entries
exist for a particular system, the default entries
are used.
The entries for particular systems have the following
format:
.IP "" 1.2i
\fIlogin-name\fR,\fInode-name \fRX\fI# path-name\fR ...
.IP \fIlogin-name\fR 1i
The name with which the remote system logs in.
.IP \fInode-name\fR
The name of the remote node. 
.IP X\fI#\fR 1i
The execution level for the remote system.  The remote
system can execute commands defined in the 
L.cmds(5)
file that have an execution level less than or equal to
the number \fI#\fR.
.IP \fIpath-name\fR 1i
The remote system can access anything at the local system
with this prefix.
.PP
Two entries must also be provided for systems not otherwise
listed:
.IP "" .5i
remote, X\fI# path-name\fR ...
.br
local, X\fI# path-name\fR ...
.PP
These entries define the execution level and access pathnames
for the local system and all remote systems not defined by
specific entries.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX 
remote, X1 /usr/spool/uucppublic
local, X9 /
max,systemY /usr/sources /usr/src/share
max,systemZ X3 /usr
.EE
In the above example, the node named systemY with the
login name max has access to anything with the pathname
prefixes 
/usr/sources 
and 
/usr/src/share.  
The node
named systemZ with the login name max can execute
commands defined in
L.cmds(5)
with an execution level of 3 or lower.  It can access
anything with the pathname prefix 
/usr.
.PP
Any other remote systems can execute commands defined
in
L.cmds(5)
with an execution level of 1 or 0.  They can access
anything with the pathname prefix of
/usr/spool/uucppublic.
.PP
Users on the local system can execute any of the commands 
defined in 
.B L.cmd 
and access anything on the system.
.SH SEE ALSO
System Management Guide
