.TH ypfiles 5yp
./" last edited by Jeff J. 6/24/86
.SH NAME
ypfiles \- the yellowpages database and directory structure
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ypfiles file"  ""  "\fLypfiles\fP \(em yellowpages database and directory"
The yellow pages (YP) network lookup service uses a database of
.PN dbm
files in the /etc/yp directory hierarchy.
A
.PN dbm
database consists of two files, created by calls to the dbm(3x)
library package.  One has the filename extension .pag
and the other has the filename extension .dir.
For instance, the database named
hosts.byname,
is implemented by the pair of files hosts.byname.pag
and hosts.byname.dir.
.PP
A
.PN dbm
database served by the YP is called a YP 
.I map.
A YP
.I domain
is a named set of YP maps.  
Each YP domain is implemented as a subdirectory of /etc/yp 
containing the map.
The number of YP domains that can exist is unlimited.
Each domain can contain any number of 
maps.
.LP
The YP maps are unrequired by the YP lookup service, although they may
be required for the normal operation of other parts of the system.
The YP lookup service serves all maps -\ if the map exists in a given
domain, and a client asks about it, the YP will serve it.  There is
however, a set of default maps that the YP service serves.  The files
representing these maps are listed in this description under FILES.
.PP
For a map to be accessible consistently, it must exist on all YP
servers that serve the domain.  To provide data consistency between the
replicated maps, an entry to execute the 
.PN ypxfr
command periodically should be made in the /usr/lib/crontab
file on each slave server.  More information on this topic is in 
ypxfr(8yp).
An entry in the /etc/lib/crontab
file MUST NOT exist either on a YP master server or on a pure YP client
machine.
.LP
The YP maps should contain two distinguished
key-value pairs.  The first is
the key YP_LAST_MODIFIED, whose value is a ten-character 
ASCII order number.  The order number should be the \s-2UNIX\s0 time 
in seconds when the map was built.  The second key is YP_MASTER_NAME, 
with the name of the YP master server as a value.  
The makedbm(8yp)
command generates both key-value pairs automatically.
A map that does not contain both key-value pairs can be served by 
the YP, but the 
.PN ypserv 
process will not be able to return values for "Get order
number" or "Get master name" requests.  
In addition, values of these two keys are used by
ypxfr(8yp)
when it transfers a map from a master YP server to a slave.
.LP
Before they can be properly accessed, the YP maps must be initially
set up for both masters and slaves by using the
ypsetup(8yp) function.
Further, YP maps must be generated and modified only
at the master server
location.  Copies of the master server YP maps can then
be transferred to the
slave servers using the ypxfr(8yp) function.
If 
.PN ypxfr 
is unable to determine a map's location, or if it is unable to
determine whether the local copy is more 
recent than the master copy, extra command line 
switches must be set when it is executed.
.LP
After the server databases are set up, the contents of
some maps may change.  In general, some ASCII source version of the
database exists on the master. 
This version should be changed with a standard text
editor.  The update is incorporated into the YP
map and is propagated from
the master to the slaves by running /etc/yp/Makefile.
All maps must have entries in /etc/yp/Makefile.
If a YP map is added, the /etc/yp/Makefile
must be edited to support the new map.
The makefile uses makedbm(8yp)
to generate the YP map on the master, and
yppush(8yp) to propagate the changed map to the slaves.  
The yppush(8yp)
command is a client of the map
.I ypservers,
which lists all of the YP servers.  
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/passwd
/etc/group
/etc/hosts
/etc/networks
/etc/services
/etc/protocols
/etc/netgroup
/etc/ethers
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
makedbm(8yp), rpcinfo(8nfs), ypmake(8yp), yppoll(8yp),
yppush(8yp), ypserv(8yp), ypsetup(8yp), ypxfr(8yp)
