.\" Last modified by Michaud on 16-Sept-1986 1000.
.\" Last modified by BAM on 27-Nov-1985 1300.
.\"
.TH chdir 2
.SH NAME
chdir \- change current working directory
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
chdir(path)
char *path;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I path
is the pathname of a directory.  The
.PN chdir
system call causes this directory
to become the current working directory,
the starting point for path names not beginning with ``/''.
.PP
In order for a directory to become the current directory,
a process must have execute (search) access to the directory.
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \fIerrno\fP is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Differs from the System V definition in that \fBELOOP\fP is a 
possible error condition.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN chdir
system call
will fail and the current working directory will be unchanged if
one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the pathname is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit
set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeds 255 characters, or
an entire path name exceeds 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named directory does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for any component of
the path name.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
system.
.TP 15
[ESTALE]
The file handle given in the argument was invalid.  The file 
referred to by that file handle no longer exists or has been revoked.
.TP 15
[ETIMEDOUT]
A "connect" request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time which is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chroot(2)
