.\" Last modified by Michaud on 16-Sept-1986 1000.
.TH chmod 2
.\" Last modified by BAM on 27-Nov-1985 1300.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 30-Oct-1985 1300.
.\"
.SH NAME
chmod, fchmod \- change mode of file
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
chmod(path, mode)
char *path;
int mode;
.PP
.ft B
fchmod(fd, mode)
int fd, mode;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file whose name
is given by \fIpath\fP
or referenced by the descriptor
.I fd
has its mode changed to
.IR mode .
Modes are constructed by
.IR or 'ing
together some
combination of the following:
.EX
04000 set user ID on execution
02000 set group ID on execution
01000 save text image after execution
00400 read by owner
00200 write by owner
00100 execute (search on directory) by owner
00070 read, write, execute (search) by group
00007 read, write, execute (search) by others
.EE
.PP
If an executable file is set up for sharing (this is the default)
then mode 1000 prevents the system from
abandoning the swap-space image of the program-text portion
of the file when its last user
terminates.
Ability to set this bit is restricted to the super-user.
.PP
Only the owner of a file (or the super-user) may change the mode.
.PP
Writing or changing the owner of a file
turns off the set-user-id and set-group-id bits.
This makes the system somewhat more secure
by protecting set-user-id (set-group-id) files
from remaining set-user-id (set-group-id) if they are modified,
at the expense of a degree of compatibility.
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Differs from the System V definition in that the mode bit
02000 (set group id on execution) is not cleared if the 
effective user ID of the process is not superuser or the
effective group ID of the process does not match the group
ID of the file.  Also, \fBELOOP\fP is a possible error condition.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN chmod
system call
will fail and the file mode will be unchanged if:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or
an entire pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The effective user ID does not match the owner of the file and
the effective user ID is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to
the file system.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[ESTALE]
The file handle given in the argument is invalid.  The file referred
to by that file handle no longer exists or has been revoked.
.PP 
The 
.PN fchmod
system call
will fail if:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
The descriptor is not valid.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I fd
refers to a socket, not to a file.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to
the file system.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A "connect" request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time which is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
open(2), chown(2)
