.TH chown 2
.\" Last modified by Michaud on 16-Sept-1986 1000.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 27-Nov-1985 1300.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 30-Oct-1985 1300.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 2-Aug-85  1000  
.\"
.SH NAME
chown, fchown \- change owner and group of a file
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
chown(path, owner, group)
char *path;
int owner, group;
.PP
.ft B
fchown(fd, owner, group)
int fd, owner, group;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
which is named by \fIpath\fP or referenced by \fIfd\fP
has its
.I owner
and 
.I group
changed as specified.
Only the super-user may
execute this call,
because if users were able to give files away,
they could defeat the file-space accounting procedures.
.PP
On some systems,
.PN chown
clears the set-user-id and set-group-id bits
on the file
to prevent accidental creation of
set-user-id and set-group-id programs
owned by the super-user.
.PP
The
.PN fchown
system call
is particularly useful when used in conjunction
with the file locking primitives.  For further information, see
flock(2).
.PP
Only one of the owner and group id's
may be set by specifying the other as \-1.
.PP
Zero is returned if the operation was successful;
\-1 is returned if an error occurs, with a more specific
error code being placed in the global variable \fIerrno\fP.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Differs from the System V definition in that only
the superuser may change the ownership.  Also, 
\fBELOOP\fP is a possible error condition.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN chown
system call
will fail and the file will be unchanged if:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an
entire pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The argument contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The effective user ID is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the
file system.
.TP 15
[ESTALE]
The file handle given in the argument is invalid.  The file referred
to by that file handle no longer exists or has been revoked.
.PP
The
.PN fchown
system call
will fail if:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
The
.I fd
does not refer to a valid descriptor.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
.I Fd
refers to a socket, not a file.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The effective user ID is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the
file system.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A "connect" request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time which is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chmod(2), flock(2)
