.TH getdomainname 2yp
.SH NAME
getdomainname, setdomainname \- get or set name of current domain
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
getdomainname(name, namelen)
char *name;
int namelen;
.sp .5
.ft B
setdomainname(name, namelen)
char *name;
int namelen;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.IX  getdomainname  ""  \fLgetdomainname\fP
.IX  "processes and protection"  getdomainname  ""  \fLgetdomainname\fP
.IX  domain  "get name of current"
.IX  "get current domain name"
.IX  setdomainname  ""  \fLsetdomainname\fP
.IX  "processes and protection"  setdomainname  ""  \fLsetdomainname\fP
.IX  domain  "set name of current"
.IX  "set current domain name"
The 
.PN getdomainname
system call returns the domain name of the current processor,
as set by
.PN setdomainname.
.LP
The
.PN setdomainname
system call sets the domain of the host machine to be
.I name,
which has a length specified by
.I namelen.
This system call is restricted to the super-user
and is normally used only
when the system is bootstrapped.
.LP
The purpose of domains is to allow merging of two distinct networks
that have common host names.  Each network can be
distinguished by having a different domain name.  At the current time,
only the yellow pages service makes use of domains.
.PP
The name argument is the address where the name of the current domain is
stored.
.PP
The 
.I namelen
argument specifies the size of the
.I name
array.  The returned name is null-terminated unless insufficient space
is provided.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If the call succeeds, a value of 0 is returned.  If the call fails, 
a value of \-1 is returned and an error code is placed in the global
location \fIerrno\fP.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Domain names are limited to 255 characters.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The \fIname\fP parameter contains an invalid address.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller was not the super-user.  This error message only
applies to the 
.PN setdomainname
system call.
