.TH ioctl 2
.SH NAME
ioctl \- control device
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/ioctl.h>
.PP
.ft B
ioctl(d, request, argp)
int d, request;
char *argp;
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN ioctl
call performs a variety of functions
on open descriptors.  In particular, many operating
characteristics of character special files (for example, terminals)
may be controlled with ioctl requests.
Certain ioctl requests
operate on a number of device types. These include
informational ioctl requests
which tell you about the device
attached to a given special file, such as devio(4), 
and ioctl requests that control buffering to a device,
such as nbuf(4).
The descriptions of various devices in section 4 discuss how
.PN ioctl
applies to them. Also consult <sys/ioctl.h> 
for more information.
.PP
An  ioctl
.I request
has encoded in it whether the argument is an \*(lqin\*(rq parameter
or \*(lqout\*(rq parameter, and the size of the argument \fIargp\fP in bytes.
Macros and defines used in specifying an ioctl
.I request
are located in the file <sys/ioctl.h>.
.PP
If an error has occurred, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN ioctl
call will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
\fID\fP is not a valid descriptor.
.TP 15
[ENOTTY]
\fID\fP is not associated with a character
special device.
.TP 15
[ENOTTY]
The specified request does not apply to the kind
of object which the descriptor \fId\fP references.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
\fIRequest\fP or \fIargp\fP is not valid.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
execve(2), fcntl(2), devio(4), intro(4n), mu(4), nbuf(4) tty(4), 
