.TH mknod 2
.\" Last modified by Michaud 16-SEpt-86 1000.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 27-Nov-1985 1300.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 30-Oct-1985 1300.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 23-Jul-85  1300  
.\"
.SH NAME
mknod \- make a directory, a special file or an ordinary file
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
int mknod(path, mode, dev)
char *path;
int mode, dev;
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN mknod
system call creates a new file
whose name is
.I path.
The mode of the new file
(including special file bits)
is initialized from
.IR mode, 
where the value of 
.I mode
is interpreted as follows:
.PP
0170000 file type; one of the following:
.RS
0010000 fifo special
.br
0020000 character special
.br
0040000 directory
.br
0060000 block special
.br
0100000 or 0000000 ordinary file
.br
0004000 set user \fBID\fP on execution
.br
0002000 set group \fBID\fP on execution
.br
0001000 save text image after execution
.RE
.PP
0000777 access permissions: constructed from the following
.RS
000400 read by owner
.br
0000200 write by owner
.br 
execute (search on directory) by owner
.br
0000070 read, write, execute (search) by group
.br
0000007 read, write, execute (search) by others
.RE
.PP
The file's  owner \fBID\fP is set to the process's effective
user \fBID\fP.  The file's group \fBID\fP is set to the 
process's effective group \fBID\fP.
.PP
Values of \fImode\fP other than those above 
are undefined and should not be used.  The 
low-order 9 bits of \fImode\fP are modified
by the process's file mode creation mask:
all bits set in the process's file mode creation mask
are cleared.  For further information, see umask(2).
If \fImode\fP
indicates a block or character special file, 
.I dev
is a configuration dependent specification of a
character or block \fBI/O\fP device.  If
.I mode
does not indicate a block special or character
special device, 
.I dev
is ignored.
.PP
The
.PN mknod
system call may be invoked only by the super-user 
for file types other than \fBFIFO\fP special.
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  
Otherwise,a value of \-1 is returned and \fIerrno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN mknod
system call will fail and the file mode will be unchanged if:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The process's effective user ID is not super-user.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
A component of the path prefix does not exist.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EEXIST]
The named file exists.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while making the directory entry or allocating
the inode.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new node is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the
file system.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
There are no free inodes on the file system on which
the node is being created.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The directory in which the entry for the new node is being
placed cannot be extended because the user's quota of disk
blocks on the file system containing the directory has been
exhausted.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The user's quota of inodes on the file system on which the
node is being created has been exhausted.
.TP 15
[ESTALE]
The file handle given in the argument is invalid.  The
file referred to by that file handle no longer exists
or has been revoked.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A "connect" request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time which is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkdir(1), chmod(2), execve(2), stat(2), umask(2), fs(5)
