.TH mount 2
.SH NAME
mount, umount \- mount or remove a file system
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/fs_types.h>
.br
.br
.ft B
mount(special, name, rwflag, type, options)
char *special, *name;
int rwflag, type;
char *options;
.PP
.ft B
umount(dev)
dev_t dev;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN mount
system call announces to the system that a removable file system has
been mounted on
special file,
.I special.
References to file
.I name
refer to
the root file on the newly mounted file system.
.PP
The
.PN mount
system call returns 0 upon successful completion of a mount operation;
it returns \-1 if the mount operation fails.
The mount operation fails when:
.IP \(bu
The file 
.I special
is inaccessible or an inappropriate file.
.IP \(bu
The file
.I special is already mounted.
.IP \(bu
The directory 
.I name
does not exist or is already in use.
.IP \(bu
There are too many file systems mounted.
.PP
The
.PN umount
system call
announces to the system that the device
.I dev
no longer contains a removable file system.
The associated directory reverts to its ordinary interpretation.
.PP
The
.PN umount
system call
returns 0 if the dismount operation succeeds; \-1 if it fails.
The file system dismount operation fails when:
.IP \(bu
The device
.I dev
is inaccessible or does not have a mounted file system.
.IP \(bu
There are active files in the mounted file system.
.PP
The 
.I special
argument is a pointer to a null-terminated string
containing the path name of the file system being mounted.
.PP
The 
.I name
argument is a pointer to a null-terminated string containing the path name
of the root file on the newly-mounted file system.  The
.I name
must already exist and must be a directory.
Its old contents
are inaccessible while the file system
is mounted.
.PP
The
.I rwflag
argument is used to determine whether the file system can be written
on; if it is 0, the file system is writable, if non-zero, the file
system is write-protected.  Physically write-protected disks and
magnetic tape file systems must be mounted read-only.
Mount also detects devices that are offline at
mount time and returns the appropriate error.
.PP
The type argument identifies the file system type that is being mounted.
The file system types are defined in the <fs_types.h> file.
.PP
The 
.I options 
argument specifies certain parameters that can be used to define how
the file system is to be mounted.
.PP
The 
.I dev
argument identifies the device that contains the file system which is to
be unmounted.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Programs compiled using the System V environment, cause
.PN mount 
and
.PN umount
to set errno to ENXIO rather than ENODEV, if \fIspecial\fP
does not exist.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[ENODEV]
A component
of
.I special
does not exist or the device is offline.
.TP 15
[ENOTBLK]
.I Special
is not a block device.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The major device number of 
.I special
is out of range (this indicates no device driver exists
for the associated hardware).
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
Either pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set
or the file system type is out of range.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The super block for the file system had a bad magic number or an
out-or-range block size.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The file system has not been unmounted cleanly and the force option 
has not been set.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of
.I name
is not a directory,
or a path prefix of
.I special
is already mounted.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
Another process currently holds a reference to
.IR name ,
or
.I special
is already mounted.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of either pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or the entire length of either pathname exceeded 1023
characters.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
either pathname.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
A component of
.I name
does not exist.
.TP 15
[EMFILE]
No space remains in the mount table.
.TP 15
[ENOMEM]
Not enough memory was available to read the cylinder
group information for the file system.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading the super block or
cylinder group information.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Special
or
.I name
points outside the process's allocated address space space.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
.I Special
is a write-locked device and the user did not set the
.I rwflag.
.PP
The
.PN umount
command may fail with one of the following errors:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The requested device is not in the mount table.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
A process is holding a reference to a file located
on the file system.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while writing the super block or other
cached file system information.
.TP 15
[EREMOTE]
An attempt has been made to mouunt an NFS remote file system that
is not local to the specified server.  This cannot
occur except in response to a failed mount(2).
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A "connect" request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time which is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(8), umount(8)
