.TH msgctl 2
.\" Last modified by BAM on 5-Dec-1985 1300.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 29-Jul-85  1300  
.\"
.SH NAME
msgctl \- message control operations
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ipc.h>
#include <sys/msg.h>
.PP
.ft B
int msgctl (msqid, cmd, buf)
int msqid, cmd;
struct msqid_ds *buf;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN msgctl
system call
provides a variety of message control operations as specified by
.I cmd.
The following
.I cmds
are available:
.TP 15
IPC_STAT
Place the current value of each member
of the data structure associated with
.I msqid
into the structure pointed to by
.I buf.
The contents of this structure are defined in intro(2).
.TP 15
IPC_SET
Set the value of the following members of the data structure
associated with
.I msqid
to the corresponding value found in the structure
pointed to by
.IR buf :
.RS
.IP
.nf
msg_perm.uid
msg_perm.gid
msg_perm.mode	/* only low 9 bits */
msg_qbytes
.fi
.PP
This
.I cmd
can only be executed by a process that has an effective user ID
equal to either that of superuser or to the value of
.B msg_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.IR msqid.
Only super user can raise the value of
.BR msg_qbytes.
.RE
.TP 15
IPC_RMID
Remove the message queue identifier specified by
.I msqid
from the system and destroy the message queue
and data structure associated with it. This command can only be executed
by a process that has an effective
user ID equal to either that of superuser or to the value of
.B msg_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.IR msquid.
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN msgctl
system call
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I msqid
is not a valid message queue identifier.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I cmd
is not a valid command.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The
.I cmd
is equal to
.B IPC_STAT
and read operation permission is denied to
the calling process.  For further information, see intro(2).
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The
.I cmd
is equal to
.B IPC_RMID
or
.B IPC_SET
and the effective user ID of the
calling process is not equal to that of
superuser and it is not equal to the value of
.B msg_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.IR msqid.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The
.I cmd
is equal to
.BR IPC_SET,
an attempt is being made to increase to the
value of
.BR msg_qbytes,
and the effective user ID of the calling process is
not equal to that of superuser.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Buf
points to an illegal address.
.SH SEE ALSO
msgget(2), msgop(2)
