.TH msgget  2
.\" Last modified by BAM on 29-Jul-85  1300  
.\"
.SH NAME
msgget \- get message queue
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ipc.h>
#include <sys/msg.h>
.PP
.ft B
int msgget (key, msgflg)
key_t key;
int msgflg;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN msgget
system call
returns the message queue identifier associated with
.I key.
.sp
A message queue identifier and associated message queue and data
structure 
are created for
.I key 
if one of the following are true:
.sp
.IP
The
.I key
is equal to
.B IPC_PRIVATE
.IP
The
.I key
does not already have a message queue identifier associated with it,
and
.IR (msgflg
&
.BR IPC_CREAT)
is "true".
For further information, see intro(2). 
.PP
Upon creation, the data structure associated with the new message queue
identifier is initialized as follows:
.IP
.BR msg_perm.cuid,
.BR msg_perm.uid,
.B msg_perm.cgid
and 
.B msg_perm.gid
are set equal to the effective user ID and effective group ID,
respectively, of the calling process.
.IP
The low-order 9 bits of
.B msg_perm.mode
are set equal to the low-order 9 bits of
.I msgflg.
.IP
.BR msg_qnum ,
.BR msg_lspid ,
.BR msg_lrpid ,
.BR msg_stime ,
and
.B mgs_rtime
are set equal to 0.
.IP
The
.B msg_ctime
is set equal to the current time.
.IP
The
.B msg_qbytes
is set equal to the system limit.
.PP
Upon successful completion, a non-negative integer, namely a message
queue identifier is returned.  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN msgget
system call
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A message queue identifier exists for
.I key
but operations permission 
as specified by the low-order 9 bits of
.I msgflg
would not be granted. 
For further information, see intro(2).
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
A message queue identifier does not exist for
.I key
and
.IR (msgflg
&
.BR IPC_CREAT)
is "false". 
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
A message queue identifier is to be created but the system imposed
limit on the maximum number of allowed message queue
identifiers system wide would be exceeded. 
.TP 15
[EEXIST]
A message queue identifier exists for
.I key
but
.RI (( msgflg
&
.BR IPC_CREAT )
&
.RI ( msgflg
&
.BR IPC_EXCL ))
is "true". 
.SH SEE ALSO
msgctl(2), msgop(2), ftok(3)
