.TH msgop 2
.\" Last modified by BAM on 5-Dec-1985 1300.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 30-Oct-1985 1300.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 2-Jul-85  1300  
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 8-Jan-87 1500
.\" 
.SH NAME
msgop \- message operations, msgsnd and msgrcv
.SH SYNTAX
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ipc.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/msg.h>
.PP
.nf
.B int msgsnd (msqid, msgp, msgsz, msgflg)
.B int msqid;
.B struct msgbuf \(**msgp;
.B int msgsz, msgflg;
.PP
.B "int msgrcv (msqid, msgp, msgsz, msgtyp, msgflg)"
.B int msqid;
.B struct msgbuf \(**msgp;
.B int msgsz;
.B long msgtyp;
.B int msgflg;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
There are two message operations system calls,
.PN msgsnd
and
.PN msgrcv.
.PP
The
.PN msgsnd
system call
is used to send a message to the queue associated with the message
queue identifier specified by
.IR msqid .
The
.I msgp
parameter points to a structure containing the message.
This structure is composed of the following members:
.PP
.EX
long	mtype;	/\(** message type \(**/
char	mtext[];	/\(** message text \(**/
.EE
.PP
The
.I mtype
parameter is a positive integer that can be used 
by the receiving process for
message selection.  For more information, see the
.PN msgrcv
section of this reference page.
The
.I mtext
parameter is any text of length
.I msgsz
bytes.
The
.I msgsz
parameter can range from 0 to a system-imposed maximum.
.PP
The
.I msgflg
parameter specifies the action to be taken if one or more
of the following are true:
.IP
The number of bytes already on the queue is equal to
.BR msg_qbytes.
See 
.PN intro(2).
.IP
The total number of messages on all queues system-wide is equal to the
system-imposed limit.
.PP
These specified actions are as follows:
.IP
If
.RI ( msgflg " & "
.SM
.BR IPC_NOWAIT\*S )
is true, the message will not be sent and the calling process will
return immediately.
.IP
If
.RI ( msgflg " & "
.SM
.BR IPC_NOWAIT\*S )
is false,
the calling process will suspend execution until
one of the following occurs:
.RS 8
.IP
The condition responsible for the suspension no longer
exists, in which case the message is sent.
.IP
The
.I msqid
parameter is removed from the system.
See 
.PN msgctl(2).
When this occurs,
.I errno
is set equal to
.SM
\%EIDRM\*S,
and a value of \-1 is returned.
.IP
The calling process receives a signal that is to be caught.
In this case the message is not sent and the calling process resumes
execution in the manner prescribed in
.PN signal(3).
.RE
.PP
The
.PN msgsnd
system call will fail and no message will be sent if one or
more of the following are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The
.I msqid
parameter is not a valid message queue identifier.
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
Operation permission is denied to the calling process.  For more
information, see 
.PN intro(2).
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The
.I mtype
parameter is less than 1.
.TP
.SM
\%[EAGAIN]
The message cannot be sent for one of the reasons cited above and
.RI ( msgflg " & "
.SM
.BR IPC_NOWAIT\*S )
is true.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The
.I msgsz
parameter is less than zero or greater than the system-imposed limit.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
The
.I msgp
parameter points to an illegal address.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the following actions are taken
with respect to the data structure associated with
.IR msqid .
For more information, see 
.PN intro(2).
.IP
The
.B msg_qnum
is incremented by 1.
.IP
The
.B msg_lspid
is set equal to the process
.SM ID
of the calling process.
.IP
The
.B msg_stime
is set equal to the current time.
.PP
The
.PN msgrcv
system call reads a message from the 
queue associated with the message queue
identifier specified by
.I msqid 
and places it in the structure pointed to by
.IR msgp .
This structure is composed of the following members:
.PP
.EX
long    mtype;      /\(** message type \(**/
char    mtext[];    /\(** message text \(**/
.EE
.PP
The
.I mtype
parameter is the received message's type, 
as specified by the sending process.
The
.I mtext
parameter is the text of the message.  The
.I msgsz
parameter specifies the size in bytes of
.IR mtext .
The received message is truncated to
.IR msgsz " bytes"
if it is larger than
.I msgsz
and
.RI ( msgflg " &"
.SM
.BR MSG_NOERROR\*S )
is true.
The truncated part of the message is lost and no indication of
the truncation is given to the calling process.
.PP
The
.I msgtyp
parameter specifies the type of message requested as follows:
.IP
If
.I msgtyp
is equal to 0, the first message on the queue is received.
.IP
If
.I msgtyp
is greater than 0, the first message of type
.I msgtyp
is received.
.IP
If
.I msgtyp
is less than 0,
the first message of the lowest type that is less than or equal
to the absolute value of
.I msgtyp
is received.
.PP
The
.I msgflg
parameter specifies the action to be taken if a message of the desired type
is not on the queue.
These specified actions are as follows:
.IP
If
.RI ( msgflg " & "
.SM
.BR IPC_NOWAIT\*S )
is true, the calling process will return immediately with a return value
of \-1 and
.I errno
set to
.SM
ENOMSG\*S.
.IP
If 
.RI ( msgflg " & "
.SM
.BR IPC_NOWAIT\*S )
is false, the calling process will suspend execution until
one of the following occurs:
.RS 8
.IP
A message of the desired type is placed on the queue.
.IP
The
.I msqid
parameter is removed from the system.
When this occurs,
.I errno
is set equal to
.SM
\%EIDRM\*S,
and a value of \-1 is returned.
.IP
The calling process receives a signal that is to be caught.
In this case a message is not received and the calling process resumes
execution in the manner prescribed in
.PN signal(3).
.RE
.PP
The
.PN msgrcv
system call will fail and no message will be received if one or more of
the following are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The
.I msqid
parameter is not a valid message queue identifier.
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
Operation permission is denied to the calling process.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The
.I msgsz
parameter is less than 0.
.TP
.SM
\%[E2BIG]
The
.I mtext 
parameter is greater than
.I msgsz
and
.RI ( msgflg " &"
.SM
.BR MSG_NOERROR\*S )
is false.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOMSG]
The queue does not contain a message of the desired type and
.RI ( msgtyp " & "
.SM
.BR IPC_NOWAIT\*S )
is true.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
The
.I msgp
parameter points to an illegal address.
.PP
Upon successful completion,
the following actions are taken with respect to
the data structure associated with
.IR msqid .  
.IP
The
.B msg_qnum
is decremented by 1.
.IP
The
.B msg_lrpid
is set equal to the process
.SM ID
of the calling process.
.IP
The
.B msg_rtime
is set equal to the current time.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If the
.PN msgsnd
or
.PN msgrcv
system calls
return due to the receipt of a signal, a value of \-1 is
returned to the calling process and
.I errno
is set to
.SM
\%EINTR\*S.
If they return due to removal of
.I msqid
from the system, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to
.SM
\%EIDRM\*S.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the return value is as follows:
.IP
The
.PN msgsnd
system call returns a value of 0.
.IP
The
.PN msgrcv
system call
returns a value equal to the number of bytes actually placed into
.IR mtext .
.PP
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(2), msgctl(2), msgget(2), signal(3).
