.TH readlink 2
.SH NAME
readlink \- read value of a symbolic link
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
cc = readlink(path, buf, bufsiz)
int cc;
char *path, *buf;
int bufsiz;
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN readlink
system call places the contents of the symbolic link
.I path 
in the buffer
.I buf
which has size
.IR bufsiz . 
The contents of the link are not null terminated when returned.
.PP
The call returns the count of characters placed in the buffer
if it succeeds, or a \-1 if an error occurs, placing the error
code in the global variable \fIerrno\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN readlink
system call will fail and the file mode will be unchanged if:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The named file is not a symbolic link.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I buf
extends outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from the file system.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A "connect" request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time which is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH SEE ALSO
lstat(2), symlink(2), stat(2)
