.TH rmdir 2
.SH NAME
rmdir \- remove a directory file
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
rmdir(path)
char *path;
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN rmdir
system call
removes a directory file
whose name is given by
.I path.
The directory must not have any entries other
than \*(lq.\*(rq and \*(lq..\*(rq.
.PP
A 0 is returned if the remove succeeds; otherwise a \-1 is
returned and an error code is stored in the global location \fIerrno\fP\|.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The named file is removed unless one or more of the
following are true:
.TP 15
[ENOTEMPTY]
The named directory contains files other than ``.'' and ``..'' in it.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The directory containing the directory to be removed is marked
sticky, and neither the containing directory nor the directory
to be removed are owned by the effective user ID.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named directory does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Write permission is denied on the directory containing the link
to be removed.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
The directory to be removed is the mount point
for a mounted file system.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The directory entry to be removed resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while deleting the directory entry or
deallocating the inode.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A "connect" request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time which is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkdir(2), unlink(2)
