.TH select 2
.SH NAME
select \- synchronous i/o multiplexing
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/time.h>
.PP
.ft B
nfound = select(nfds, readfds, writefds, execptfds, timeout)
int nfound, nfds, *readfds, *writefds, *execptfds;
struct timeval *timeout;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B select
system call
examines the I/O descriptors specified by the bit masks
.IR readfds ,
.IR writefds ,
and
.I execptfds
to see if they are ready for reading, writing, or have an exceptional
condition pending, respectively.
The I/O descriptors can be pointers to arrays of integers if
multiple fd's are required to be selected.
File descriptor 
.I f
is represented by the bit \*(lq1<<f\*(rq in
the mask.
The
.I nfds
descriptors are checked,
that is the bits from 0 through
.IR nfds -1
in the masks are examined.
The
.B select
system call
returns, in place, a mask of those descriptors which are ready.
The total number of ready descriptors is returned in
.IR nfound .
.PP
If
.I timeout
is a non-zero pointer, it specifies a maximum interval to wait for the
selection to complete.  If 
.I timeout
is a zero pointer, the 
.B select
blocks indefinitely.  To affect a poll, the
.I timeout
argument should be non-zero, pointing to a zero valued timeval structure.
.PP
Any of
.IR readfds ,
.IR writefds ,
and
.I execptfds
may be given as 0 if no descriptors are of interest.
.PP
The
.B select
system call
returns the number of descriptors which are contained in
the bit masks,
or \-1 if an error occurred.
If the time limit expires then
.B select
returns 0.
.PP
A socket exception is not defined and therefore execptfds always
returns a 0.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The descriptor masks are always modified on return, even
if the call returns as the result of the timeout.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
An error return from \fBselect\fP indicates:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
One of the bit masks specified an invalid descriptor.
.TP 15
[EINTR]
A signal was delivered before 
the time limit expired and before any of the selected events occurred.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The specified time limit is unacceptable.  One of its components
is negative or too large.
.SH SEE ALSO
accept(2), connect(2), read(2), recv(2), send(2), write(2)
