.TH semctl 2
.\" Last modified by BAM on 31-Oct-1985 1300.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 29-Jul-85  1300  
.\"
.SH NAME
semctl \- semaphore control operations
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ipc.h>
#include <sys/sem.h>
.PP
.ft B
int semctl (semid, semnum, cmd, arg)
int semid, cmd;
int semnum;
union semun {
	int val;
	struct semid_ds *buf;
	ushort array[];
} arg;
.fi
.in -8
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN semctl
system call
provides a variety of semaphore control operations as specified by 
.I cmd.
.PP
The following 
.I cmds
are executed with respect to the semaphore specified by
.I semid
and
.IR semnum:
.TP 15
.B GETVAL
Return the value of semval.  For further information, see
intro(2).
.TP 15
.B SETVAL
Set the value of semval to arg.val.  When this command is successfully
executed the semadj value corresponding to the specified semaphore in all
processes is cleared.
.TP 15
.B GETPID
Return the value of sempid. 
.TP 15
.B GETNCNT
Return the value of semncnt. 
.TP 15
.B GETZCNT
Return the value of semzcnt. 
.PP
The following
.I cmds
return and set, respectively, every semval in the set of semaphores.
.TP 15
.B GETALL
Place semvals into array pointed to by
.I arg.array
.TP 15
.B SETALL
Set semvals according to the array pointed to by
.I arg.array
When this command is successfully executed
the semadj values corresponding
to each specified semaphore in all processes are cleared.
.PP
The following 
.I cmds
are also available:
.TP 15
.B IPC_STAT
Place the current value of each member of the data structure associated with 
.I semid 
into the  structure pointed to by
.IR arg.buf.
The contents of this structure are defined in 
intro(2).
.TP 15
.B IPC_SET
Set the value of the following members of the data structure associated with
.I semid 
to the corresponding value found in the structure pointed to by
.IR arg.buf:
.EX
sem_perm.uid
sem_perm.gid
sem_perm.mode /* only low 9 bits */
.EE
.PP
This command can only be executed by a process that has an effective 
user ID equal to either that of superuser or to the value of
.B sem_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.IR semid.
.TP 15
.B IPC_RMID
Remove the semaphore identifier specified by 
.I semid
from the system and destroy the set of semaphores and data structure associated
with it.  This cmd can only be executed by a process that has an effective user
ID equal to either that of superuser or to the value of
.B sem_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.IR semid.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the value returned depends on 
.I cmd
as follows:
.RS 8
.TP 15
.B GETVAL
The value of semval.
.TP 15
.B GETPID
The value of sempid.
.TP 15
.B GETNCNT
The value of semncnt.
.TP 15
.B GETZCNT
The value of semzcnt.
.TP 15
All other
A value of 0.
.RE
.PP
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN semctl
system call
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I semid
is not a valid semaphore identifier. 
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I semnum
is less than zero or greater than
.B sem_nsems.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I cmd
is not a valid command. 
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Operation permission is denied to the calling process.
For further information, see intro(2). 
.TP 15
[ERANGE]
.I Cmd
is 
.B SETVAL
or
.B SETALL
and the value to which semval is to be set
is greater than the system imposed maximum. 
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The
.I cmd
is equal to 
.B IPC_RMID
or
.B IPC_SET 
and the effective user ID of the calling
process is not equal to that of superuser
and it is not equal to the value of
.B sem_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.IR semid.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I arg.buf
points to an illegal address. 
.SH SEE ALSO
semget(2), semop(2)
