.TH semget 2
.SH NAME
semget \- get set of semaphores
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ipc.h>
#include <sys/sem.h>
.PP
.ft B
int semget (key, nsems, semflg)
key_t key;
int nsems, semflg;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN semget
system call
returns the semaphore identifier associated with
.I key.
.sp
A semaphore identifier and associated data structure and set containing 
.I nsems
semaphores
are created for
.I key 
if one of the following are true:
.RS 8
.PP
The
.I key
is equal to 
.B IPC_PRIVATE
.PP
The
.I key
does not already have a semaphore identifier associated with it, and
.RI ( semflg
&
.BR IPC_CREAT )
is "true".
.RE
For further information, see intro(2).
.PP
Upon creation,
the data structure associated with the new semaphore identifier
is initialized as follows:
.RS 8
The
.BR sem_perm.cuid ,
.BR sem_perm.uid ,
.BR sem_perm.cgid
and
.B sem_perm.gid
are set equal to the effective user ID and effective group ID, respectively, of
the calling process.
.sp
The low-order 9 bits of
.B sem_perm.mode
are set equal to the low-order 9 bits of
.IR semflg .
.PP
The
.B sem_nsems 
is set equal to the value of
.I nsems.
.PP
The
.B sem_otime
is set equal to 0 and
.B sem_ctime 
is set equal to the current time.
.sp
.in -8
.PP
Upon successful completion, a non-negative integer, namely a semaphore
identifier is returned.  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and 
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.I semget
system call
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I nsems
is either less than or equal to zero or greater than the system imposed limit
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A semaphore identifier exists for
.I key
but operation permission 
as specified by the low-order 9 bits of
.I semflg
would not be granted. 
For further information, see intro(2).
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
A semaphore identifier exists for
.I key 
but the number of semaphores in the set associated with it is less than 
.I nsems
and
.I nsems
is not equal to zero. 
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
A semaphore identifier does not exist for
.I key 
and 
.RI ( semflg
&
.BR IPC_CREAT )
is "false". 
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
A semaphore identifier is to be created
but the system imposed limit on the
maximum number of allowed semaphore
identifiers system wide would be exceeded.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
A semaphore identifier is to be created
but the system imposed limit on the
maximum number of allowed semaphores
system wide would be exceeded.
.TP 15
[EEXIST]
A semaphore identifier exists for
.I key
but 
.RI (( semflg
&
.BR IPC_CREAT )
& 
.RI ( semflg
&
.BR IPC_EXCL ))
is "true". 
.SH SEE ALSO
semctl(2), semop(2), ftok(3)
