.TH utime 2
.\" Last modified by BAM on 25-Nov-1985 1300.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 31-Oct-1985 1300.
.\"
.SH NAME
utime \- set file access and modification times
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
int utime (path, times)
char *path;
struct utimbuf *times;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I path
points to a path name naming a file.  The
.PN utime
system call
sets the access and modification times
of the named file.
.PP
If
.I times
is
.BR NULL ,
the access and modification times
of the file are set to the current time.
A process must be the owner of the file
or have write permission to use
.I utime
in this manner.
.PP
If
.I times
is not
.B NULL,
.I times
is interpreted as a pointer to a
.I utimbuf
structure and
the access and modification times
are set to the values contained in
the designated structure.  Only the
owner of the file or the super-user may use
.I utime
this way.
.PP
The times in the following structure
are measured in seconds since 00:00:00
GMT\*S,
Jan. 1, 1970.
.EX 0
struct	utimbuf	{
	time_t	actime;	/* access time */
	time_t	modtime;	/* modification time */
};
.EE
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and \fIerrno\fP 
is set to indicate the error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN utime
system call
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied by a component of the
path prefix.
.TP
[EPERM]
The effective user ID is not super-user
and not the owner of the file and
.I times
is not
.BR NULL .
.TP
[EACCES]
The effective user ID is not super-user
and not the owner of the file
and 
.I times
is
.B NULL
and write access is denied.
.TP
[EROFS]
The file system containing the file is mounted read-only.
.TP
[EFAULT]
The
.I times
is not
.B NULL
and points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
[EFAULT]
The
.I path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A "connect" request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time which is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
stat(2)
