.TH utimes 2
.SH NAME
utimes \- set file times
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/time.h>
.PP
.ft B
utimes(file, tvp)
char *file;
struct timeval *tvp[2];
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN utimes
call
uses the
\*(lqaccessed\*(rq and \*(lqupdated\*(rq times in that order
from the
.I tvp
vector
to set the corresponding recorded times for
.I file.
.PP
The caller must be the owner of the file or the super-user.
The \*(lqinode-changed\*(rq time of the file is set to the current time.
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN utime
system call
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The process is not super-user and not the owner of the file.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The file system containing the file is mounted read-only.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I file
or
.I tvp
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading or writing the affected inode.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A "connect" request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time which is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH SEE ALSO
stat(2)
