.TH console 4
.SH NAME
console \- console interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
On all but the busless small VAX processors,
the console is available to the processor through the console registers.
It acts like a normal terminal, except that when the local functions are
not disabled, CTRL/P puts the console in local console mode (where
the prompt is ``>>>'').  This is true for all processors except the
Microvax line and busless small VAX processors (see below).
The operation of the console in this mode varies
slightly for each processor.
.PP
On an 11/780 (or 11/785),
if you press the BREAK key on the console,
the console will go into ODT (console debugger mode).  
Press P (upper-case letter p) to return from this mode.
.PP
On an 11/750 or an 11/730 (11/725),
the processor is halted whenever the console is not 
in conversational mode, 
and typing ``C'' returns to conversational mode.
When in console mode on an 11/750 which has a remote diagnosis module,
a CTRL/D will put you in remote diagnosis mode,
where the prompt will be ``RDM>''.
The command ``ret'' will return from remote diagnosis
mode to local console mode.
.PP
On any Microvax, halt the processor by depressing the HALT 
button on the front panel. 
Typing CTRL/P has no effect on either the Microvax-I or the
Microvax-II.  Return to the running system by pressing ``c''
on the console terminal after the HALT button is released.
.PP
On the busless small VAX processor, halt the 
processor by depressing the HALT button
on the rear panel (located next to the printer port connector).
If the diagnostic console terminal is attached (see ss(4)),
halt the processor by depressing the BREAK key.
Typing CTRL/P has no effect on the busless small VAX processor.
Return to the running system by typing ``c''
on the console terminal.
.PP
On an 8800 (8700, 8500, 8550),
you can return to the conversational mode using the command
``set t p'' (set terminal program) if the processor is still
running, or ``continue'' if it is halted.
The latter command may be abbreviated ``c''.
Halt the processor by typing CTRL/P.  Restart the processor 
by typing ``c''.
.PP
On an 8600 (8650), halt the processor by typing CTRL/P when the
terminal control switch on the front panel is in the LOCAL or 
REMOTE position.  When this switch is in the LOCAL position,
pressing CTRL/P at the console terminal is the only way to halt
the processor. 
When the switch is in the REMOTE position, both the
console terminal and the remote terminal (if present) can halt the
processor.  When the terminal control switch is in either LOCAL
position only the console terminal will operate as any other ULTRIX
terminal.  When the terminal control switch is in either REMOTE
position both the console terminal and the remote terminal will
operate as any other ULTRIX terminal.
.PP
On an 8100 (8200, 8300),
halt the processor by typing CTRL/P when the console is
ENABLED.  Return to the running system by typing ``c'' to continue.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
On all but the busless small VAX processors,
the console serial line should be used at a relatively low baud rate
(2400 BPS or less) as it generally interrupts the CPU for each
character received or transmitted. Higher baud rates are permitted
but generally impede system performance so much as to warrant using
a lower baud rate.
On the small VAX, the console operates at 9600 BPS for a terminal
or 4800 BPS for a graphics device.  For further information,
see ss(4).
.SH FILES
/dev/console
.SH SEE ALSO
cty(4), ss(4), tty(4), MAKEDEV(8)
