.TH ctu 4
.SH NAME
ctu \- console TU58 interface
.SH SYNTAX
.B "options MRSP"
(for VAX-11/750's with an MRSP prom)
.SH DESCRIPTION
Prior to Version 2.0, this device was referenced using
tu(4).
.PP
The
.PN ctu
interface provides access to the VAX 11/730 (11/725) 
and 11/750 TU58 console cassette drive(s).
.PP
The interface supports only block I/O to the TU58 cassettes.
The devices are normally manipulated with the
arff(8v)
program using the ``f'' and ``m'' options.
.PP
The device driver is automatically included when a
system is configured to run on an 11/730 (11/725) or 11/750.
.PP
The TU58 on an 11/750 uses the Radial Serial Protocol (RSP)
to communicate with the cpu over a serial line.  This
protocol is inherently unreliable as it has no flow
control measures built in.  On an 11/730 (11/725) the Modified
Radial Serial Protocol is used.  This protocol incorporates
flow control measures which insure reliable data transfer
between the cpu and the device.  Certain 11/750's have
been modified to use the MRSP prom used in the 11/730 (11/725).
To reliably use the console TU58 on an 11/750 under UNIX,
the MRSP prom is required.  For those 11/750's without
an MRSP prom, an unreliable but often
usable interface has been developed.
This interface uses an assembly language ``pseudo-dma'' routine
to minimize the receiver interrupt service latency.
To include this code in
the system, the configuration must \fBnot\fP specify the
system will run on an 11/730 (11/725) or use an MRSP prom.
This unfortunately makes it impossible to configure a
single system which will properly handle TU58's on both an 11/750
and an 11/730 (11/725) (unless both machines have MRSP proms).
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Frequent data overruns may occur if the VAX 11/750 TU58 is used
while in multi-user mode. The interface will continue to function
and errors will be handled, but transfer times may be lengthened
considerably.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR "tu%d: no bp, active %d" .
A transmission complete interrupt was received with no outstanding
I/O request.  This indicates a hardware problem.
.PP
.BR "tu%d protocol error, state=%s, op=%x, cnt=%d, block=%d" .
The driver entered an illegal state.  The information printed
indicates the illegal state, operation currently being executed,
the I/O count, and the block number on the cassette.
.PP
.BR "tu%d receive state error, state=%s, byte=%x" .
The driver entered an illegal state in the receiver finite
state machine.	The state is shown along with the control
byte of the received packet.
.PP
.BR "tu%d: read stalled" .
A timer watching the controller detected no interrupt for
an extended period while an operation was outstanding.
This usually indicates that one or more receiver interrupts
were lost and the transfer is restarted (11/750 only).
.PP
.BR "tu%d: hard error bn%d, pk_mod %o" .
The device returned a status code indicating a hard error. The
actual error code is shown in octal. No retries are attempted
by the driver.
.SH FILES
.nf
.DT
/dev/tu0
/dev/tu1	(only on a VAX-11/730 (11/725))
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
MAKEDEV(8)
