.TH dhu 4
.SH NAME
dhu \- DHU11 communications multiplexer
.SH SYNTAX
.B "device dhu0 at uba? csr 0160440 flags 0x???? vector dhurint dhuxint"
.SH DESCRIPTION
A DHU11 provides 16 communication lines with modem control.
.PP
Each line attached to the DHU11 communications multiplexer
behaves as described in
tty(4).
Input and output for each line can be set independently
to run at any of 16 speeds;
see
tty(4)
for the coding.
.PP
Bit
.I i
of flags can be specified for a DHU11
to say that a line is not properly
connected, and that the line should be treated as hard-wired with carrier
always present.  Thus specifying ``flags 0x0004'' in the specification of dhu0
would cause the second line ttyA2 to be treated in this way.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP "\fBdhu%d %d: DMA ERROR\fR" 0.3i
The indicated channel failed to transfer DMA
data within 21.3 microseconds of the bus request being acknowledged or
there was a memory parity error.
This is often followed by a UNIBUS adapter
error, which occurs most frequently when the UNIBUS is heavily loaded
and when devices such as rk07's, which monopolize the bus, are present.
.IP "\fBdhu%d: DIAG. FAILURE\fR" 0.3i
The DHU11 failed the diagnostics that
run at initialization time.
.IP "\fBdhu%d: recv. fifo overflow\fR" 0.3i
The character input fifo overflowed
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if a hard error occurs
when the cpu is running with elevated priority.  Interrupts are
disabled, and the system then prints a message on the console. .
.SH FILES
.nf
.DT
/dev/tty??
/dev/ttyd?	(modem lines only)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
tty(4), MAKEDEV(8)
