.TH dhv 4
.SH NAME
dhv \- DHV-11 communications multiplexer
.br
dhu
.SH SYNTAX
.B "device dhv0 at uba0 csr 0160440 flags 0xff vector dhurint dhuxint"
.SH DESCRIPTION
A dhv-11 provides 8 communication lines with partial modem control,
adequate for UNIX dialup use.
Each line attached to the DHV-11 communications multiplexer
behaves as described in
tty(4)
and may be set to run at any of 16 speeds; see
tty(4)
for the encoding.
.PP
Bit
.I i
of flags may be specified for a dhv to say that a line is not properly
connected, and that the line should be treated as hard-wired with carrier
always present.  Thus specifying ``flags 0x04'' in the specification of dhv0
would cause line tty02 to be treated in this way.
.PP
The dhv driver normally interrupts on each input character.
.NT
The dhv and dhu drivers have been combined.
.NE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
\fBdhv%d: receive fifo overflow\fR.  The character input fifo overflowed
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if a hard error occurs
when the CPU is running with elevated priority, as the system will
then print a message on the console with interrupts disabled.
This may cause a few input characters to be lost to users.
It is not serious.
.PP
\fBdhv%d:%d DMA ERROR\fR.  A DMA transfer error has occurred.
The
.B dhv
unit number and line number are printed.
This means that the channel indicated has failed to transfer DMA data
within 10.7 microseconds of the bus request being acknowledged, or that
there is a memory parity error.
This may cause a few output characters to be lost.
.PP
\fBdhv%d: DIAG. FAILURE\fR.  This indicates that the
.B dhv
internal diagnostics have detected an error.
.SH FILES
/dev/tty??
.br
/dev/ttyd?		dialups
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tty(4), MAKEDEV(8)
