.TH dkio 4
.SH NAME
dkio \- ULTRIX disk interface
.SH SYNTAX
\fB#include <sys/fs.h>\fR
.br
\fB#include <sys/ioctl.h>\fR
.br
\fB#include <sys/dkio.h>\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This section describes the ioctl (input/output controller) codes for all
disk drivers.
.SH "Basic Ioctls"
.LP
The basic ioctl (input/output controller) format is:
.sp
\fB#include <sys/fs.h>\fR
.br
\fB#include <sys/ioctl.h>\fR
.br
\fB#include <sys/dkio.h>\fR
.br
\fBioctl\fR(\fIfildes, code, arg)\fR
.br
\fBstruct pt\fR *\fR\fIarg\fR;
.sp 2
The applicable \fIcodes\fR are:
.TP 16
DIOCGETPT
This code indicates to the driver to store
the information in the current partition table in
the address pointed to by \fIarg\fR.
The file descriptor must be opened on the raw
partitions \fIa\fR or \fIc\fR.
.sp
DIOCGETPT does not change the partition table,
but it does provide access to the partition table information.
.TP 16
DIOCSETPT
This code indicates to the driver to modify
the current partition table with the information
pointed to by \fIarg\fR.
.sp
The file descriptor must be opened on the raw
partitions \fIa\fR or \fIc\fR.
.sp
If the \fIa\fR or \fIc\fR partition is not mounted,
then only the partition table in the driver is modified.
This temporarily modifies the partition table of the disk.
The modifications are overwritten with the default table
when the disk is turned off and on.
.sp
If the \fIa\fR or \fIc\fR partition is mounted,
then both the partition table in the driver and the partition table in
the primary superblock are modified.
This permanently modifies the partition table of the disk.
This is not recommended.
To change a partition table permanently,
you should use the \fIchpt\fR(8) command.
.TP 16
DIOCDGTPT
This code indicates to the driver to store
the \fIdefault\fR information of the current partition table in
the address pointed to by \fIarg\fR.
The file descriptor must be opened on the raw
partitions \fIa\fR or \fIc\fR.
.sp
DIOCGETPT does not change the partition table,
but it does provide access to the partition table information.
.TP 16
DKIOCDOP
This code allows the user to issue generic disk operations as defined in
.RI < sys/dkio.h >. Its use is limited to the superuser of a given machine.
.TP 16
DKIOCGET
This code allows the user to receive generic disk information as defined in
.RI < sys/dkio.h >.
.TP 16
DKIOCACC
This code indicates that for an mscp class of disk the driver perform
one of the following functions:
.EX
- force revector a specified disk block
- scan an area of the disk reporting any forced errors
  found and revectoring any bad blocks found
- clear a forced error condition on the specified block
.SH EXAMPLE
This example shows how to use the DIOGETPT ioctl code to
print the length and offset of the \fIa\fR partition of an RA81 disk:
.EX
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/param.h>
#include <sys/fs.h>
#include <sys/ioctl.h>
#include <sys/dkio.h>

main()
{
	struct pt arg;
	int fd, i;

	/* Open the "a" partition of the disk you want to see */

	if ( (fd = open("/dev/rra0a",0)) < 0 ) {
		printf("Unable to open device\\n");
		exit(1);
	}

	/* Get the partition information */

	if ( ioctl(fd,DIOCGETPT,&arg) < 0 )
		printf("Error in ioctl\\n");

	printf("Length\\t\\tOffset\\n");


	for ( i = 0; i <= 7; i++ ) {
		printf("%d\\t\\t%d\\n",arg.pt_part[i].pi_nblocks,
				  arg.pt_part[i].pi_blkoff );
	}
}
.SH FILES
/dev/{r}ra???
.br
/dev/{r}hp???
.br
/dev/{r}rb???
.br
/dev/{r}rd???
.br
/dev/{r}rk???
.br
/dev/{r}rl???
.br
/dev/{r}rx???
.SH RESTRICTIONS
These restrictions apply when using the DIOSETPT ioctl code:
.IP \(bu 4
You must have superuser privileges.
.IP \(bu
You can not shrink or change the offset of a partition
with a file system mounted on it
or with an open file descriptor on the entire partition.
.IP \(bu
You can not change the offset of the \fIa\fR partition.
.SH SEE ALSO
hp(4),
ra(4),
rb(4),
rd(4),
rk(4),
rl(4),
rx(4),
MAKEDEV(8),
disktab(5),
fs(5),
chpt(8),
diskpart(8),
fsck(8),
mkfs(8),
tunefs(8)
