.TH dmb 4
.SH NAME
dmb \- DMB32 communications multiplexor
.SH SYNTAX
.B "device dmb0 at vaxbi? node? flags 0x????"
.br
.ti +0.5i
.B "vector dmbsint dmbaint dmblint"
.SH DESCRIPTION
A
DMB32
device provides eight communication lines with modem control.
The device driver also supports a connection to a line printer
through the line printer port of the
DMB32.
.PP
Each line attached to a
DMB32
serial line port behaves as described
in
tty(4).
Input and output for each line may independently be set to run at any
of 16 speeds; see
tty(4)
for the encoding.
.PP
Bit
.I i
of flags may be specified for a
.B dmb
to say that a line is not properly connected, and that the
line should be treated as hard-wired with carrier always present.
Thus, specifying ``flags 0x0004'' in the specification of
.B dmb0
would cause line 2 on the DMB32 to be treated as hard-wired
with carrier always present.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The DMB32
provides a synchronous port, but this is
not supported by the driver.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP "\fBdmbinit: device broken\fR" 0.3i
This message is produced at system boot time if the DMB32
fails its internal self test.
.IP "\fBdmb%d: fifo overflow\fR" 0.3i
The character input fifo overflowed
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if the cpu is running
with elevated priority for too long a period of time.
No user interaction is required.
.IP "\fBdmb%d: DMA Error. tbuf = 0x%x\fR" 0.3i
A DMA output transfer failed.  This could be caused by a memory error
or an invalid pte.
For a description of the error code in the
"tbuf" register, see the DMB32 User Guide.
.IP "\fBdmb%d: Modem Error. tbuf = 0x%x\fR" 0.3i
Indicates a problem with a modem or its cable.
For a description of the error code in the
"tbuf" register, see the DMB32 User Guide.
.IP "\fBdmb%d: Internal Error. tbuf = 0x%x\fR" 0.3i
Indicates that the DMB32 detected an internal error.
For a description of the error code in the
"tbuf" register, see the DMB32 User Guide.
.IP "\fBdmb%d: uio move error\fR" 0.3i
An error occurred when copying a printer buffer from user space
to system space.
.IP "\fBdmbsint\fR" 0.3i
The unsupported synchronous port of the DMB32 interrupted because
of a problem.  Check your interrupt vectors for a conflict with
another device.
.SH FILES
.nf
.DT
/dev/tty??
/dev/ttyd?		(modem lines only)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
tty(4), MAKEDEV(8), dmbsp(4)
