.TH dmf 4
.SH NAME
dmf \- DMF32 communications multiplexor
.SH SYNTAX
.B "device dmf0 at uba? csr 0160340 flags 0x????"
.br
.ti +0.5i
.B "vector dmfsrint dmfsxint dmfdaint dmfdbint dmfrint dmfxint dmflint"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN dmf
device provides 8 lines of asynchronous serial line support with full
modem control on two lines only.   The device driver
also supports a connection to a line printer through the line printer
port of the DMF32.
.PP
Each line attached to a DMF32 serial line port behaves as described
in tty(4).
Input and output for each line may independently be set to run at any
of 16 speeds.  See tty(4) for the encoding.
.PP
Bit
.I i
of flags may be specified for a
.PN dmf
to to say that a line is not properly connected, and that the
line should be treated as hard-wired with carrier always present.
Thus specifying ``flags 0x0004'' in the specification of
.IR dmf0
would cause line 2 on the DMF32 to be treated in this way.
.PP
The
.PN dmf
driver normally uses input silos and polls for input at each clock
tick (10 milliseconds).
.NT CAUTION
The DMF32 will discard incoming characters on the lines with
full modem control if carrier is not present.
.NE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The DMF32 provides other services, but these are
not supported by the driver.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP "dmf%d: NXM line %d" 0.3i
No response from UNIBUS on a dma transfer
within a timeout period.  This is often followed by a UNIBUS adapter
error.	This occurs most frequently when the UNIBUS is heavily loaded
and when devices which monopolize the bus, such as rk07's, are present.
It is not serious.
.IP "dmf%d: silo overflow" 0.3i
The character input silo overflowed
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if a hard error occurs
when the cpu is running with elevated priority, as the system will
then print a message on the console with interrupts disabled.
.PP
.BR dmfsrint .
.br
.BR dmfsxint .
.br
.BR dmfdaint .
.br
.BR dmfdbint .
.IP "" 0.3i
One of the unsupported ports of the DMF32 interrupted because
of a problem.  Check your interrupt vectors for a conflict with
another device.
.SH FILES
.nf
.DT
/dev/tty??
/dev/ttyd?		(modem lines only)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
dmfsp(4), tty(4), MAKEDEV(8) 
