.TH dmv 4
.SH NAME
dmv \- DEC DMV-11 point-to-point communications device
.SH SYNTAX
.B "device dmv0 at uba0 csr 0167600 flags 0x???? vector dmvrint dmvxint"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN dmv
interface provides access to a point-to-point communications
device which runs at speeds from 2.4 Kb/s to 56 Kb/s.
DMV-11's communicate using the DEC DDCMP link layer protocol.
.PP
Several protocols can be multiplexed over a
.PN dmv
link simultaneously.  Conversely, a 
.PN dmv
can be set up such that only one protocol family can use that device.
If the latter approach is taken, an SIOCSTATE ioctl must be issued
by the protocol family requesting device ownership.  The family's
address must appear in the ``if_family'' structure member, and
``if_nomuxhdr '' must be set.  Before requesting ownership, the
device's current ownership should be read and saved.  This will
allow device ownership to be returned to a previous owner.
.PP
The first byte of the flags word can be set up to indicate
what mode the device should use.  The supported modes are 0
for full duplex, 1 for maintenance mode, and 2 for half duplex
as a primary station.  In addition, the driver will assume
.PN dmc
compatibility mode unless bit 2 of the first byte is set.  The
number of outstanding transmit buffers can be increased from
a default of 7 to a maximum of 24 buffers by specifying a
hexadecimal value in the second byte of the flags word.
For example, if flags is set to 0x1800, then 24 transmit
buffers will be allocated on a device set up to run full
duplex in
.PN dmc
compatibility mode.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR "dmvprobe: can't start device" .
The 
.PN dmv
could not be started at boot time.
.PP
.BR "dmvprobe: device failed diagnostics, octal failure code = %o" .
The 
.PN dmv
failed diagnostics at boot time.
.PP
.BR "dmvinit: can't place dmv%d into internal loopback" .
Unable to place the
.PN dmv
into internal loopback requested by user.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: done unalloc rbuf" .
The device returned a receive or transmit buffer that was
not allocated to it.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: unknown address type %d" .
An input packet was received that contained a type of
address uknown to the driver.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d bad packet address 0x%x" .
The device returned a buffer with an unexpected buffer address.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: unsolicited information response: ctl = %x, data = %x" .
The device interrupted the driver with an information response
when none was requested.
.PP
.BR "dmvd%d: bad control %o" .
A bad parameter was passed to the dmvload routine.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: modem disconnect" .
The modem disconnected or there was a loss of carrier
while a packet was being received.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: buffer too small" .
The remote node sent a packet that was too large to fit in
the allocated receive buffer.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: receive threshold reported" .
The
.PN dmv
reported a receive threshold error.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: transmit threshold reached" .
The
.PN dmv
reported a transmit threshold error.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: select threshold reached" .
The
.PN dmv
reported a select threshold error.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: babbling tributary reported" .
The
.PN dmv
reported a babbling tributary error.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: streaming tributary reported" .
The
.PN dmv
reported a streaming tributary error.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: MOP mode entered while DDCMP was running" .
.br
.BR "dmv%d: MOP mode entered while device was halted" .
.br
The
.PN dmv
has entered MOP mode.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: non existent memory reported" .
The
.PN dmv
accessed non-existent memory.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: device queue overflow reported" .
The
.PN dmv
reported a queue overflow.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: invalid counter pointer" .
The
.PN dmv
is reporting the contents of a counter when no request
was made to do so.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: can't handle af%d" .
The
.PN dmv
was handed a transmit message which has addresses formatted
in an unsuitable address family.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: internal loopback enable requested" .
The device is being put in internal loopback at a user's
request.
.PP
.BR "dmv%d: internal loopback disable requested" .
The device is being taken out of internal loopback at a user's
request.
.PP
.BR "dmvwatch: dmv%d hung, bse10=%b, bsell = %b, bse12=%b" .
The device has not responded after a long period of time.
