.TH lta 4
.SH NAME
lta \- Local Area Terminal (LAT) server driver
.SH SYNTAX
\fBoptions LAT
\fBpseudo-device lat
\fBpseudo-device lta\fB[\fIn\fB]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN lta
pseudo-terminal driver provides support for
local area transport (LAT) service.
LAT service allows users to access remote nodes through the Ethernet.
.SH Installing LAT
.LP
To properly configure LAT service into your system,
do the following:
.IP
Edit the configuration file to include ``options LAT'',
``pseudo-device lat'', and ``pseudo-device lta''.
The configuration file is in /sys/conf/MACHINE, where
MACHINE is the the name you have given your machine.
.IP ""
If no optional \fIn\fR value is given defining the number
of LAT lines to configure, a default of 16 lines is assumed.
.IP
To use remote node maintenance functions to load and control
diskless servers such as the DECserver 100, edit the
configuration file to include ``options DLI'', and
``pseudo-device dli''.
.IP
To restart LAT service
automatically when the system reboots,
add the following to the /etc/rc.local file after the
``local daemons'' startup section.
.nf
if [ -f /etc/lcp ]; then
       /etc/lcp -s > /dev/console 2>&1 & echo -n ' lat' >/dev/console
fi
.fi
.IP
Create the LAT special files with the following commands:
.EX
cd /dev
MAKEDEV lta0
.EE
.IP ""
The MAKEDEV command will create 16 LAT special files.
You can create more special files in groups of 16 by
specifying a digit in the range 1 to 7. This will
create groups of 16 special files.
For example, the command
.EX
MAKEDEV lta1
.EE
will create 16 additional tty?? special files.
.IP
Edit the /etc/ttys file to include entries for all files
created by the
.br
MAKEDEV command.
For more information on how to add these entries, see
the manual page ttys(5).
.SH FILES
.nf
.DT
/dev/tty??
/dev/ttyd?		(modem lines only)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ttys(5), MAKEDEV(8)
