.TH mtio 4
.SH NAME
mtio \- ULTRIX magtape interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
The /dev directory special files
``rmt0{l,m,h}, ..., rmt31{l,m,h}''
refer to the ULTRIX mass storage tape drives,
which may exist on several different busses depending on the
bus/formatter/controller. On the BI, the TMSCP controllers,
tms(4), are available. On the QBUS the TMSCP controllers,
tms(4), and the TSV05 controller, ts(4),
are available. On the MASSBUS, there are the TM03, tu(4),
and TM78 formatters, mu(4).
On the UNIBUS, TS11 formatters, the TSU05 controller, ts(4),
and the TMSCP controllers, tms(4), are available.
On busless small VAX processors,
the TZK50 cartridge tape subsystem, stc(4), is available.
The following description applies to any mass
storage tape drive.
.PP
For both the ``rewind'' and ``norewind'' special files, described below,
the unit number represents a symbolic count that has no connection
with the actual ``plug'' or controller
number of a particular tape drive.
As each tape unit special file is created the number counts up from
.I 0
to
.I 31
for a total of
.I 32
tape drives.
.PP
The special files ``rmt0l, ..., rmt31l'' are low density,
``rmt0m, ..., rmt31m''
are medium density (when a drive is ``triple density''), and
``rmt0h, ..., rmt31h''
are high density. All these special files cause a loaded and online tape
to automatically rewind to the beginning-of-tape (BOT) when closed.
Low, medium, and high density
are relative to the densities supported on a particular tape drive, 
for example, the TS11/TSU05/TSV05 supports only 1600 bpi
so its rewind namespace is,
``rmt0h, ..., rmt31h.''
.PP
The special files
``nrmt0{l,m,h}, ..., nrmt31{l,m,h}''
do not cause a rewind when closed regardless of density.
When closed, the tape is positioned between two tapemarks. The
norewind namespace for the TS11/TSU05/TSV05 example given above is,
``nrmt0h, ..., nrmt31h.''
.PP
The
.I rmt
and
.I nrmt
special files discussed above are available to all ULTRIX
utilities that can perform I/O to tape.
A number of magnetic tape ioctl operations are available
and some are used by the above utilities. The operations come under
two ioctl request groups. These are MTIOCTOP and MTIOCGET, for tape
operation and get status, respectively.
See the file < sys/mtio.h > for further information.
.PP
Each
.PN read
or
.PN write
system call reads or writes the next record on the tape. In the
write case the record has the same length as the buffer given.
During a read, the record size is passed back as the number of
bytes read, provided it is no greater than the buffer size;
if the record is long, an error is returned.
Seeks are ignored. Positioning is done with a tape ioctl call.
A zero byte count is returned when a tape mark
is read, but another read will fetch the first record of the
next tape file. When a file open for writing is closed,
two end-of-files (EOF) are written. If a tape reaches the
end-of-tape (EOT) marker, the
.I ENOSPC
errno value is set.
.SH FILES
/dev/rmt???
.br
/dev/nrmt???
.SH SEE ALSO
mu(4), stc(4), tms(4), ts(4), tu(4), MAKEDEV(8)
