.TH se 4 
.SH NAME
se \- DESVA 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface
.SH SYNTAX
.B "device se0 at uba0 csr 0x200e0000 vector seintr"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN se
interface provides access to a 10 Mb/s Ethernet network through
the DEC DESVA controller.
The DESVA controller is used with the busless small VAX processors.
.PP
The host's Internet address is specified at boot time with
an SIOCSIFADDR ioctl.
The
.PN se
interface employs the address resolution protocol described in
arp(4p)
to map dynamically between Internet and Ethernet addresses on the local
network.
.PP
The interface normally tries to use a ``trailer'' encapsulation
to minimize copying data on input and output.  This can be
disabled for an interface by setting the IFF_NOTRAILERS
flag with an SIOCSIFFLAGS ioctl.
Trailers are only used for packets destined for Internet hosts.
.PP
The SIOCSPHYSADDR ioctl can be used to change 
the physical address of the DESVA.  The
SIOCRPHYSADDR ioctl can
be used to read the physical address of the DESVA.
.PP
The SIOCADDMULTI and SIOCDELMULTI ioctls can be used to add or delete
multicast addresses.  
The DESVA currently recognizes a maximum of 12 multicast addresses.
.PP
The SIOCRDCTRS and SIOCRDZCTRS ioctls can be used to read or 
"read and clear" the Ethernet driver counters.
The argument to these two ioctls is a pointer to a counter
structure, ctrreq, found in <net/if.h>.
.PP
The SIOCENABLBACK and SIOCDISABLBACK ioctls can be used to enable
and disable the interface loopback mode respectively.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostic error messages contain relevant information provided
by the DESVA.  For example,
.EX
se: can't handle af%d
.EE
.PP
The interface was handed
a message with addresses formatted in an unsuitable address
family, and the packet was dropped.
.EX
se: memory error (MERR)
mser = nnnn
mear = nnnn
.EE
A memory parity error has occurred. 
The memory system error register (mser) and
memory error address register (mear) are printed.
The mear contains the page number of the physical address
of the failing byte when the parity error occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
arp(4p), inet(4f), intro(4n)
