.TH ss 4
.SH NAME
ss \- Small VAX Serial Line Controller
.SH SYNTAX
.B "device ss0 at uba0 csr 0x200a0000 flags 0x0f"
.br
.ti +0.5i
.B "vector ssrint ssxint"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The small VAX serial line controller is similar to
the DZQ11 4 line communications multiplexer.
An SS provides 4 communication ports with partial modem control
on port 2, adequate for dialup use.
Only port 2 supports modem control (dialup access),
all other ports must be operated as local lines.
Each line attached to the serial line controller
behaves as described in
tty(4)
and may be set to run at any of 16 speeds. 
For the encoding, see
tty(4).
However, configuration requirements dictate fixed speed
operation of ports connected to the console terminal and
graphics devices.
.PP
The small VAX may be configured as a workstation or
a multiuser time-sharing system.
For the workstation configuration,
the SS ports are used as follows:
.EX
Port      Usage
----      -----
0         Graphics device keyboard at 4800 BPS
1         Mouse or tablet at 4800 BPS
2         Communications (with modem control)/local terminal
3         Serial printer port
.EE
For the multiuser configuration,
the SS port usage is:
.EX
Port      Usage
----      -----
0         Console terminal at 9600 BPS
1         Local terminal line
2         Communications (with modem control)/local terminal
3         Local terminal or serial printer 
.EE
For either configuration, a diagnostic console terminal
may be connected to port 3 using a BCC08 cable.
For the multiuser configuration, while the diagnostic console
is connected, no other terminal devices can be connected.
When the diagnostic console is in use,
the processor may be halted by pressing the ``break'' key.
The selection of which port to use for the console
is made during the processor's power on sequence,
and cannot be changed after power on.
If the diagnostic console is connected, it will be used,
otherwise the device connected to port 0 will be the console.
.PP
For the SS device,
the flags should always be specified as ``flags 0x0f''
(all 4 lines hard-wired).
The state of port 2 may be established by specifying either
modem or nomodem as part of the /etc/ttys file entry for tty02;
see
ttys(5).
The default state of port 2 may be controlled by
flags bit 2.
Set ``flags 0x0f'' for a hard-wired line,
``flags 0x0b'' for dialup operation (wait for carrier).
.PP
The ss driver operates in interrupt per character mode
(all pending characters are flushed from the silo on each interrupt).
Silo alarm mode is used by the DZQ11 driver at times of high input
character traffic.  This mode is not used by the SS driver,
due to the need to track mouse or tablet position changes
in real time.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Speed must be set to 9600 BPS on the console port and
4800 BPS on ports used by graphics devices.
The ss driver enforces this restriction,
that is, changing speeds with the stty command may
not always work on these ports.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBss0: input silo overflow\fR.  The 64 character input silo overflowed
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if a hard error occurs
when the cpu is running with elevated priority, as the system will
then print a message on the console with interrupts disabled.
.SH FILES
.nf
.DT
/dev/console	(console terminal or graphics device)
/dev/tty00	(not used)
/dev/tty01	(local terminal - multiuser configuration only)
/dev/tty02	(dialup or local terminal)
/dev/tty03	(printer port or local terminal)
/dev/mouse	(mouse or tablet - workstation configuration only)
/dev/smscreen	(console message window for workstations)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
console(4), devio(4), sm(4), tty(4), ttys(5), MAKEDEV(8)
