.TH stc 4
.SH NAME
stc \- TZK50 (VAXstation TK50) magtape interface
.SH SYNTAX
.B "controller stc0 at uba0 csr 0x200c0080 vector stintr"
.br
.B "tape st0 at stc0 drive 0"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TZK50/TK50 combination
provides a standard tape drive interface
as described in mtio(4).
The TZK50 is supported only on the VAXstation 2000,
and the MicroVAX 2000.
This driver also supports n-buffered reads and writes to
the raw tape interface (used with streaming tape drives).
See nbuf(4) for further details.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following messages are printed at the console:
.LP
.B
st0: arbitration failed after %d tries
.br
After the indicated number of tries, we have given
up trying to arbitrate for the TK50 bus.
.LP
.B
st0: device failed to select
.br
The host was not able to select the TK50
device on the bus.
.LP
.B
st0: device failed to reselect
.br
The host was not able to reselect the
TK50 device on the bus.
.LP
.B
st0: parity error
.br
A parity error was encountered as part of a command or status
packet.
.LP
.B
st0: bus reset
.br
The TK50 bus has just been reset.
.LP
.B
st0: buffer too large
.br
A read or write was requested that exceeds the 16K maximum supported
block size of this driver.
.LP
.B
st0: aborting transfer
.br
An error has occurred, and the request to the driver is
being aborted.
.LP
.B
st0: request sense data: xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
.br
When an error occurs, the request sense data is the last command's
status sent from the TK50 controller.
.LP
.B
st0: software error
.br
The software has sent an illegal request to the drive.
.LP
.B
st0: soft error, sense key = 0x%x
.br
A non-fatal error has occurred.  The sense key is part of 
the request sense data returned from the TK50 controller.
.LP
.B
st0: hard error, sense key = 0x%x
.br
A fatal error has occurred.  The sense key is part of the
request sense data returned from the TK50 controller.
.LP
.SH FILES
/dev/rmt???
/dev/nrmt???
.SH SEE ALSO
mtio(4), nbuf(4), MAKEDEV(8), uerf(8)
