.TH tms 4
.SH NAME
tms \- TMSCP tape controller interface
.SH SYNTAX
For UNIBUS, QBUS;
.br
.B "controller klesiu0 at uba0"
.br
.B "controller tmscp0 at klesiu0 csr 0174500 vector tmscpintr"
.br
.B "tape tms0 at tmscp0 drive 0"
.PP
For VAXBI:
.br
.B "controller klesib0 at vaxbi0 node 0"
.br
.B "controller tmscp0 at klesib0
.br
.B "tape tms0 at tmscp0 drive 0"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Prior to Version 2.0, this device was referenced by 
tmscp(4).
.PP
The TMSCP
driver provides a standard tape drive interface
as described in
mtio(4).
This is a driver for any controller which adheres
to the Tape Mass Storage Control Protocol (TMSCP).
The TMSCP controllers communicate with the host
through a packet oriented protocol termed
the Tape Mass Storage Control Protocol.
Consult the file
<vax/tmscp.h>
for a detailed
description of this protocol.
This driver also supports n-buffered reads and writes to
the raw tape interface (used with streaming tape drives).
See nbuf(4) for further details.
.SH TAPE SUPPORT
TK50, TK70, TU81, TU81e
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following messages are printed at the console:
.LP
.B
tmscp controller failed to init.
.br
The controller failed to initialize properly.  This may indicate a
hardware problem.
.LP
.B
tmscp can't get command packet
.br
The controller was unable to obtain a command packet from the
command ring.
.LP
.B
tmscp%d: random interrupt ignored.
.br
An unexpected interrupt was received (e.g. when no i/o was pending).
The interrupt is ignored.
.LP
.B
tmscp%d:  interrupt in unknown state %d ignored.
.br
An interrupt was received when the driver was in an unknown internal state.
Indicates a hardware problem or a driver bug.
.LP
.B
tmscp%d:  fatal error (%0).
.br
The port (tmscp controller) detected a "fatal error".  The contents of
the status register are displayed.
.LP
.B
Bad ioctl on tms unit %d.
.br
An unknown mt ioctl command was issued to the driver.
.LP
.B
tmscp%d:  invalid cmd, encode = %o, status = %o.
.br
The TMSCP response packet endcode field did not contain a valid opcode.
The endcode is printed and the driver's internal state.
.LP
.B
tmscp unknown packet.
.br
A TMSCP packet of unknown type was received from the tmscp controller.
Check the cabling to the controller.
.LP
The following messages are written to the system error log file,
/usr/adm/syserr/syserr.<hostname>.
.LP
.B
tmscpstrat:  ubinfo 0x%x.
.br
(VAX 11/750 only.)  When allocating UNIBUS resources, the driver found
it already had resources previously allocated.
.LP
.B
tmscp%d sa %o, state %d.
(Additional status information given after a hard i/o error.)
The values of the tmscp controller status register and the
internal driver state are printed.
.LP
The following types of TMSCP error packets are 
returned by the tmscp controller to the host:
controller error, host memory access error, tape transfer
error, STI error, STI Drive Error Log, STI Formatter
Error Log, and unknown error.
.SH FILES
/dev/rmt???
/dev/nrmt???
.SH SEE ALSO
mtio(4), nbuf(4), MAKEDEV(8), uerf(8)
