.TH tu 4
.SH NAME
tu \- TM03/TE16/TU45/TU77 MASSBUS magtape interface
.SH SYNTAX
.B "master ht0 at mba? drive ?"
.br
.B "tape tu0 at ht0 slave 0"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Prior to Version 2.0, this device was referenced by
ht(4).
.PP
The TM03/transport combination provides a standard tape drive
interface as described in
mtio(4).
All drives provide both 800 and 1600 bpi; the TE16 runs at 45 ips,
the TU45 at 75 ips, while the TU77 runs at 125 ips and autoloads tapes.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBtu%d: no write ring\fR.
.br
An attempt was made to write on the tape drive
when no write ring was present.
This message is written on the terminal of
the user who tried to access the tape.
.PP
\fBtu%d: not online\fR.
.br
An attempt was made to access the tape while it
was offline.
This message is written on the terminal of the user
who tried to access the tape.
.PP
\fBtu%d: can't switch density in mid-tape\fR.
.br
An attempt was made to write on a tape at a different density
than is already recorded on the tape.
This message is written on the terminal of the user who tried to switch
the density.
.PP
\fBtu%d: hard error bn%d\fR.
.br
A tape error occurred at block \fIbn\fR.
Any error is fatal on non-raw tape.
When possible the driver will have retried
the operation which failed several times before reporting the error.
Additional register information may be gathered from the
system error log file,
/usr/adm/syserr/syserr.<hostname>.
.SH FILES
/dev/rmt???
/dev/nrmt???
.SH SEE ALSO
mtio(4), nbuf(4), MAKEDEV(8), uerf(8)
