.TH 3780e 1
.SH NAME
3780e \- spooler for the IBM 3780 emulator
.SH SYNTAX
.B 3780e
[
.B \-C
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-a
] [
.B \-q
] [
\fB\-t\fR[\fBb\fR]
] [
.BI \-S file
] [
.BI \-# num
] 
.IR file ...
[
.B \-o 
.IR file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN 3780e
command puts the files named as arguments, 
along with a single control file which guides each file's
execution, into
.PN usr/spool/rje 
and calls the
.PN 2780d
program.
This program
sends the files to the IBM system.
.PP
The following options may be needed to
format the data transmitted to an IBM system.
.IP \fB\-C\fR 0.3i
Do not compress spaces when files are sent.
.IP \fB\-m\fR 0.3i
Send mail when the file has been sent and when
output from the submitted file has been received successfully.
.IP \fB\-a\fR 0.3i
Send as a priority job. Used only by the superuser. 
This file will be placed ahead of the next regular file or at the
end of other priority jobs.
.IP \fB\-q\fR 0.3i
Prepare the file for transmission and place it in 
.PN "/usr/spool/rje"
but do not call 2780d to transmit the file.
.IP \fB\-t\fR 0.3i
Send data in transparent mode. This option is used for files
which contain special control or protocol characters.
Use this option if the IBM system does
not accept multiple 80 column card records in
transparent mode.
.IP \fB\-tb\fR 0.3i
Transmit the file to an IBM system which
accepts multiple 80 column card records in transparent
mode.
.IP \fB\-S\fR 0.3i
Send the contents of the file to the IBM
as a sign-on card.  If this option is not specified, then a
default sign-on card in the spool area will be used.
.IP \fB\-#\fR 0.3i
Wait for
.I num
files to be received as output from your job and give them
default file names which have
the form 
.I "Ruseridpid".
.IP \fB\-o\fR 0.3i
Name the files received as output from
your job with file names that you create.
This option must be at the end of the command line.
Anything listed after this option is interpreted as
an output file name.
.SH FILES
.br
/etc/2780d - program that transmits files
.br
/usr/spool/rje - spool directory
.br
/usr/spool/rje/rjetemp.out - temporary file for incoming files
.SH SEE ALSO
2780d(8), 2780e(1)
