.TH binmail 1
.SH NAME
binmail \- send or receive mail among users
.SH SYNTAX
.B /bin/mail
[
.B +
] [
.B \-i
] [ person ] ...
.br
.B /bin/mail
.B "[ + ]"
[
.B \-i
]
.B \-f
file
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the old version 7 UNIX system mail program.  The default
.PN mail
command is described in mail(1),
and its binary is in the directory /usr/ucb.
The /bin/mail
program is still used to actually deliver
a mail message into the users system-wide mailbox (/usr/spool/mail/*),
however, the reading of these messages has been replaced with
the program /usr/ucb/mail.
Do not remove /bin/mail
from your system.
.PP
The
.PN mail
command
with no argument prints a user's mail, message-by-message,
in last-in, first-out order; the optional argument
.B +
displays the mail messages in first-in, first-out order.
For each message, it reads a line from the standard input
to direct the disposition of the message.
.TP 17
carriage return
Go on to next message
.TP 17
d
Delete message and go on to the next.
.TP 17
p
Print message again.
.TP 17
\-
Go back to previous message.
.TP 17
.RI "s [" " file " "] ..."
Save the message in the named
.I files
(`mbox' default).
.TP 17
.RI "w [" " file " "] ..."
Save the message, without a header, in the named
.I files
(`mbox' default).
.TP 17
.RI "m [" " person " "] ..."
Mail the message to the named
.I persons
(yourself is default).
.TP 17
EOT (control-D)
Put unexamined mail back in the mailbox and stop.
.TP 17
q
Same as EOT.
.TP 17
.RI ! command
Escape to the Shell to do
.IR command .
.TP 17
*
Print a command summary.
.PP
An interrupt normally terminates the 
.PN mail
command; the mail file is unchanged.  The optional argument
.B \(mii
tells
.PN mail
to continue after interrupts.
.PP
When
.I persons
are named,
.PN mail
takes the standard input up to an end-of-file (or a line with just `.')
and adds it to each
.I person's
mail file.  The message is preceded by the sender's name and a postmark.
Lines that look like postmarks are prepended with `>'.  A
.I person
is usually a user name recognized by login(1).
To denote a recipient on a remote system, prefix 
.I person
by the system name and exclamation mark.  For further information, see
uucp(1c).
.PP
The
.B \-f
option causes the named file, for example, mbox,
to be printed as if it were the mail file.
.PP
When a user logs in he is informed of the presence of mail.
.PP
When /bin/mail
is used to deliver mail, (usually sendmail(8)
calls /bin/mail to do this), the users mailbox is created
in the directory /usr/spool/mail if it doesn't already exist.  It
is created with the mode 700 so that only the owner can read
his mail.  In addition, the directory ``/usr/spool/mail'' has the
mode 777 with the sticky bit set.  The mode is 777 so that
other mail programs, notably
.PN /usr/ucb/mail,
can create the appropiate lock files to prevent another process from
writing the mailbox at the same time.  The sticky bit set on the
directory prevents one user from unlinking another users mailbox.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Race conditions sometimes result in a failure to remove a lock file.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/spool/mail/*.lock 'u
/etc/passwd	to identify sender and locate persons
.br
.li
/usr/spool/mail/*	incoming mail for user *
.br
mbox		saved mail
.br
/tmp/ma*	temp file
.br
/usr/spool/mail/*.lock	lock for mail directory
.br
dead.letter	unmailable text
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mail(1), uucp(1c), uux(1c), write(1), sendmail(8)
