.TH cat 1
.SH NAME
cat \- concatenate and print
.SH SYNTAX
.B cat
[
.B \-b
] [
.B \-e
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-u
] [
.B \-v
]
file...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN cat
command reads each
.I file
in sequence and displays it on the standard output.  Thus
.PP
.ti+15n
cat file
.PP
displays the file on the standard output, and
.PP
.ti+15n
cat file1 file2 >file3
.PP
concatenates the first two files and places the result on the third.
.PP
If no input file is given, or if the argument `\-' is encountered,
.PN cat
reads from the standard input file.
Output is buffered in 1024-byte blocks unless the standard
output is a terminal, in which case it is line buffered. 
.PP
The
.B \-b
option ignores blank lines and precedes all other output with
line numbers.
.PP
The 
.B \-e
option displays a dollar sign ($) at the end of each output
line.
.PP
The
.B \-n
option precedes all output lines (including blank lines) with
line numbers.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option squeezes adjacent empty lines so that the
output is displayed single spaced.
.PP
The 
.B \-t
option displays all non-printing characters including tabs 
in the output.
In addition to those representations used with the
.B \-v
option, all tab characters are displayed as ^I.
.PP
The
.B \-u
option makes the output completely unbuffered.
.PP
The
.B \-v
option displays non-printing characters (except tabs).
.CT x 
(control character x) prints as ^X.
The delete character
(octal 0177) prints as ^?.
Non-ascii characters (with the high bit set) are printed as M-
(for meta) followed by the character of the low 7 bits.
.PP
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Beware of `cat a b >a' and `cat a b >b', which destroy
the input files before reading them.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cp(1), ex(1), more(1), pr(1), tail(1)
