.TH cc 1 
.SH NAME
cc \- C compiler
.SH SYNTAX
.B cc
[ \fIoption\fR... ] \fIfile\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN cc
command invokes
the ULTRIX C compiler.
The 
.PN cc
command accepts several types of arguments:
.PP
Arguments whose names end with .c are taken to be
C source programs. They are compiled, and
each object program is left on the file
whose name is that of the source with .o substituted
for .c.
If a single
C program is compiled and loaded all at one go, the .o
file is deleted.
.PP
Arguments whose names end with .s are taken to 
be assembly source programs
and are assembled, producing an .o file.
.PP
Other arguments are taken to be either loader option
arguments, or C-compatible object
programs, produced by an earlier
.PN cc
run or by libraries of C-compatible routines.
.SH OPTIONS
These options are accepted by
.PN cc.
See ld(1) for load-time options.
.TP 10
\fB\-b
Do not pass 
.B \-lc
to ld(1) by default.
.TP 10 
\fB\-B\fIstring
Find substitute compiler passes in the files named
.I string
with the suffixes cpp, ccom, and c2.
.TP 10 
.B \-c
Suppress the loading phase of the compilation and force
an object file to be produced even if only one program is compiled.
.TP 10 
.B \-C
Stops the macro preprocessor from omitting comments.
.TP 10 
\fB\-D\fIname=def
.br
.ns
.TP 10
\fB\-D\fIname\fR
Define the \fIname\fR to the processor, as if by #define.
If no definition is given, the name is defined as ``1''.
.TP 10
.B \-E
Run only the macro preprocessor on the named C programs and
send the result to the standard output.
.TP 10
.B \-Em
Run only the macro preprocessor on the named C programs and
produce the makefile dependencies.
.TP 10
.B \-f
Specifies that computations involving only FFLOAT numbers be
done in single precision and not promoted to double.  Procedure
arguments are still promoted to double.  Programs with a
large number of single-precision computations will run faster
with this option; however, a slight loss in precision may
result due to the saving of intermediate results in a
single-precision representation.
.TP 10
.B \-g
Have the compiler produce additional symbol table information
for 
dbx(1).
Also pass the
.B \-lg
flag to ld(1).
.TP 10
\fB\-I\fIdir\fR
Seek ``\f(TR#include\fR'' files whose names do not begin with ``/''
first in the directory of the \fIfile\fR
argument, then in directories named in \fB\-I\fR options,
then in directories on a standard list.
.TP 10
\fB\-l\fIx
This option is an abbreviation for the library name
`/lib/lib\fIx\fR.a', where \fIx\fR is a
string.  If that does not exist,
.B ld
tries `/usr/lib/lib\fIx\fR.a'.  If that does not exist,
.B ld
tries `/usr/local/lib/lib\fIx\fR.a'.  A library is searched
when its name is encountered, so the placement of a \fB\-l\fR
is significant.
.TP 10
\fB\-M\fR
Specifies the floating point type to be used for double-precision
floating point.  Passed on to 
ld(1) 
as the map option.
.TP 10
.B \-Md
Specify DFLOAT (the default) and pass the \fB\-lc\fR flag
to ld(1).
.TP 10
.B \-Mg
Specify GFLOAT and pass the \fB\-lcg\fR flag to ld(1)
which causes the GFLOAT version of \fBlibc\fR to be used.  If the math
library is used with code compiled with the \fB\-Mg\fR flag, the
GFLOAT version would be linked to by specifying \fB\-lmg\fR on
the cc(1) or ld(1) command.
.TP 10
\fB\-o \fIoutput\fR
Name the final output file \fIoutput\fR.  If this option is
used, the file a.out
will be left undisturbed.  If the named file has an .o or .a
suffix, the following error message is displayed: \fB-o would
overwrite\fR.
.TP 10
\fB\-O\fR
Invoke an object-code improver.
.TP 10
.B \-p
Arrange for the compiler to produce code
which counts the number of times each routine is called.
If loading takes place, replace the standard startup
routine with one which automatically calls monitor(3).
at the start and arranges to write out a
mon.out
file at normal termination of execution of the object program.
An execution profile can then be generated by
use of
prof(1).
.TP 10
.B \-pg
Causes the compiler to produce counting code in the manner of
.B \-p,
but invokes a run-time recording mechanism that keeps more
extensive statistics and produces a 
gmon.out
file at normal termination.
Also, a profiling library is searched, in lieu of
the standard C library.
An execution profile can then be generated by  use of
gprof(1).
.TP 10
.B \-R
Passed on to
.I as,
which makes initialized variables shared and read-only.
.TP 10
.B \-S
Compile the named C programs, and leave the
assembler-language output on corresponding files suffixed .s.
.TP 10
.BR \-t [ p012 ]
Find only the designated compiler passes in the
files whose names are constructed by a
.B \-B
option.
In the absence of a
.B \-B 
option, the
.I string
is taken to be /usr/c/.
.TP 10
\fB\-U\fIname\fR
Remove any initial definition of \fIname\fR.
.TP 10
\fB\-w\fR
Suppress warning diagnostics.
.TP 10
\fB\-Y\fR
Compile file for the System V environment.  Defines SYSTEM_FIVE
for the preprocessor, 
.PN cpp ,
and if the loader is invoked,
specifies that the System V version of the C runtime library is
used.  Also, if the math library is specified with the \fB\-lm\fR
option, the System V version will be used.
.SH DEFAULT SYMBOLS
The ULTRIX C compiler provides the following default symbols
for your use.  These symbols are useful in \f(TRifdef\fR
statements to isolate code for one of the particular cases. 
Thus, these symbols can be useful for ensuring portable code.
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ta 1.5i
\f(CWunix\fR	Any UNIX system
\f(CWbsd4_2\fR	Berkeley UNIX Version 4.2
\f(CWultrix\fR	ULTRIX only
\f(CWvax\fR	VAX only (as opposed to PDP-11)
.fi
.RE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The compiler ignores advice to put 
\fBchar\fR, \fBunsigned char\fR,
\fBshort\fR or \fBunsigned short\fR variables in registers.
.PP
If the
.B \-Mg
flag is used to produce GFLOAT code,
it must be used when compiling
all the modules which will be linked.
Use the
.B \-Mg
flag if 
you use the 
.B cc
command
to indirectly invoke
ld(1)
to link the modules.  If
ld(1) 
is invoked directly, use the
.B \-lcg
flag rather than
.B \-lc.
If the math library is used, specify the
.B \-lmg
flag rather than the
.B \-lm
flag in order to use the GFLOAT version.	
.PP 
The compiler and the linker ld(1)
cannot detect the use of mixed double floating
point types.  If you use them, your program's
results may be erroneous. 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by C are intended to be
self-explanatory.
Occasional messages may be produced by the assembler
or loader.
.SH FILES
.ta 1.5i 
file.c	input file
.br
file.o	object file
.br
a.out	loaded output
.br
/tmp/ctm?	temporary
.br
/lib/cpp	preprocessor
.br
/lib/ccom	compiler
.br
/lib/c2	optional optimizer
.br
/lib/crt0.o	runtime startoff
.br
/lib/mcrt0.o	startoff for profiling
.br
/usr/lib/gcrt0.o	startoff for gprof-profiling
.br
/lib/libc.a	standard library, see intro(3)
.br
/usr/libcg.a	GFLOAT
version of the standard library, see intro(3)
.br
/usr/lib/libc_p.a	profiling library, see intro(3)
.br
/usr/include	standard directory for \f(TR#include\fR files
.br
mon.out	file produced for analysis by prof(1)
.br
gmon.out	file produced for analysis by
gprof(1)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
adb(1), as(1), dbx(1), gprof(1), ld(1), prof(1), monitor(3)
