.TH chfn 1
.SH NAME
chfn \- change finger entry
.SH SYNTAX
.B chfn
[loginname]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN chfn
command
is used to change information about users.  This information is used
by the finger program, among others.
It consists of the user's
real name, office room number, office phone number, and home
phone number.
The
.PN chfn
command prompts the user for each field.
Included in the prompt is a default value,
which is enclosed between brackets.
The default value is accepted simply by typing <return>.
To enter a blank field,
type the word 'none'.
This is an example:
.EX
Name [Biff Studsworth II]:
.br
Office number (no colons) [ABC-1/K0]:
DEF-2/K1
.br
Office Phone (Exs: 1234 or 123-4567) []:
1863
.br
Home Phone (Ex: 123-4567) [5771546]:
none
.EE
.PP
The
.PN chfn
command allows phone numbers to be entered with or without hyphens.
Office entries cannot contain colons or newlines.
.PP
It is a good idea to run finger after running
.PN chfn
to make sure everything is the way you want it.
.PP
The optional argument
.B loginname
is used to change another person's finger information.
This can only be done by the superuser.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The encoding of the office and extension
information is installation dependent.
.PP
Because two users may try to write the 
passwd file at once, a synchronization
method was developed.
On rare occasions, a message that the password file
is "busy" will be printed.
In this case,
.PN chfn
sleeps for a while and then tries to write to the passwd file again.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd, /etc/ptmp
.SH SEE\ ALSO
finger(1), passwd(5yp)
