.TH date 1
.SH NAME
date \- print and set the date
.SH SYNTAX
.B date
[[yy[mm[dd]]]hhmm[.ss][-[-]tttt][z]]
[ \fB+\fPformat ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
If no argument is given,
or if the argument begins with \fB+\fP,
the current date and time are printed.
Otherwise, the current date is set.
The first
.I mm
is the month number;\fR
.I dd
is the day number in the month;\fR
.I hh
is the hour number (24 hour system);\fR
the second
.I mm
is the minute number;\fR
.I .ss
the second;\fR
-[-]\fItttt\fR
is the minutes west of greenwich;\fR
a positive number means your timezone is west of Greenwich
(for example, North and South America)
and a negative number means it is east of Greenwich (for
example Europe);
.I z
is a one letter code indicating the dst correction mode
{n=none, u=usa, a=australian, w=western europe, m=middle europe,
e=eastern europe};
.I yy
is the last 2 digits of the year number and is optional.
For example:
.PP
.RS
date\| 10080045
.RE
.PP
sets the date to Oct 8, 12:45 \s-1AM\s+1.
The current year is the default if no year is mentioned.
The system operates in \s-1GMT\s0.
.I Date
takes care of the conversion to and from
local standard and daylight time.
.PP
If the argument begins with \fB+\fP,
the output of
.I date
is under the control of the user.
The format for the output is similar to that of
the first argument to
printf(3s).
All output fields are of fixed size (zero padded
if necessary).
Each field descriptor is preceded by \fB%\fP
and will be replaced in the output by
its corresponding value.
A single \fB%\fP is encoded by \fB%%\fP.
All other
characters are copied to the output without change.
The string is always terminated with a new-line character.
.PP
Field Descriptors:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 5
.B  n
insert a new-line character
.TP 5
.B  t
insert a tab character
.TP 5
.B  m
month of year \- 01 to 12
.TP 5
.B  d
day of month \- 01 to 31
.TP 5
.B  y
last 2 digits of year \- 00 to 99
.TP 5
.B D
date as mm/dd/yy
.TP 5
.B  H
hour \- 00 to 23
.TP 5
.B  M
minute \- 00 to 59
.TP 5
.B  S
second \- 00 to 59
.TP 5
.B T
time as \s-1HH:MM:SS\s+1
.TP 5
.B  j
day of year \- 001 to 366
.TP 5
.B  w
day of week \- Sunday = 0
.TP 5
.B  a
abbreviated weekday \- Sun to Sat
.TP 5
.B  h
abbreviated month \- Jan to Dec
.TP 5
.B  r
time in
.SM AM/PM 
notation
.RE
.ne 8
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
date\| \(fm+DATE: %m/%d/%y%nTIME: %H:%M:%S\(fm
.EE
would have generated as output:
.EX
DATE: 08/01/76
.br
TIME: 14:45:05
.EE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1.5i
.I No permission
if
you aren't the super-user and you try to change the date;
.TP
.I bad conversion
if the date set is syntactically incorrect;
.TP
.I bad format character
if the field
descriptor is not recognizable.
.LP
.NT CAUTION	 
You should not change the date while the system is
running in multiuser mode.
.NE
.SH FILES
/dev/kmem
