.TH df 1
.SH NAME
df \- display free and used disk space
.SH SYNTAX
.B df
[
.B \-i
] [ \fIfilesystem\fR... ] [ \fIfile\fR... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B df
command displays the amount of disk space
available on the specified
.I filesystem,
for example,
/dev/ra0a.
It will also display the amount of available disk space
on the file system in which the specified
.I file
is contained, $HOME for example.
If a device is given that has no file systems
mounted on it,
.B df
displays the information for the root file system.
Without any arguments or options,
.B df
displays
both the used disk space and the free disk space on all of the 
file systems that have been mounted using the
.I fstab
file.  The numbers are reported in kilobytes. 
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX 0
Filesystem    total    kbytes  kbytes  percent
   node       kbytes    used    free   used    Mounted on
/dev/ra1a       7429    2085    4602    31%    /tmp
/dev/ra0e      30519   14817   12651    54%    /usr/spool
/dev/ra0h     313233  122858  159052    44%    /usr/staff1
.EE
.PP
The total disk space is the total space that was created
during the making of the file system.
The addition of the used space, the
free space and a percentage of reserved space is the total space.
The default value for the reserved space is 10%.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.B \-i
In addition to disk information, report the number of free inodes and
the number of used inodes.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
You can no longer use the 
.B df
command to find free space on an unmounted file system using the
block or character special device name.  Instead, use the
dumpfs(8) command.
.SH FILES
/etc/fstab	list of mounted filesystems
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fstab(5), icheck(8), mkfs(8), newfs(8), quot(8)
