.TH ex 1
.SH NAME
ex, edit \- text editor
.SH SYNTAX
.B ex
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-t 
tag
] [
.B \-r
] [
\fB\+\fIcommand\fR
] [
.B \-l
]
\fIname\fR...
.br
.B edit
[
ex options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN ex
editor is the root of a family of editors:
.Pn edit,
.PN ex
and
.PN vi.
The
.PN ex
editor is a superset of
.PN ed,
with the most notable extension being a display editing facility.
Display based editing is the focus of
.PN vi.
.PP
If you have not used
.PN ed,
or are a casual user, you will find that the editor
.PN edit
is convenient for you.
It avoids some of the complexities of
.PN ex,
used mostly by systems programmers and persons very familiar with
.PN ed.
.PP
If you have a \s-2CRT\s0 terminal, you may wish to use a display
based editor; in this case
see
.PN vi,
which focuses on the display editing portion of
.PN ex.
.PP
The
.B \-
option suppresses all interactive-user feedback.
This option is useful in processing editor scripts in command
files.
.PP
The
.B \-v
option is equivalent to using 
.PN vi
rather than 
.PN ex.
.PP
The 
.B \-t
option is equivalent to an initial 
.I tag 
command, that is,
editing the file containing the
.I tag
and positioning the editor at its definition.
.PP
The 
.B \-r
option is used to recover after an editor or system crash.
It recovers by retrieving the last saved version of the named
.I file.
If no
.I file
is specified,
it displays a list of saved files.
.PP
The
.B \-R
option sets the readonly option at the start.
.PP
The 
.B +command
option indicates that the editor should begin
by executing the specified command.  If the command
is omitted, it defaults to 
.B $, 
positioning the editor at the last line of the first file, initially.
Other useful commands here are scanning patterns of the form
.B +/pattern
or line numbers.
.PP
The 
.B \-l
option sets up for LISP.
That is, it sets the
.IR showmatch 
and 
.IR lisp
options.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The
.PN undo
command causes all marks to be lost on lines changed and then restored
if the marked lines were changed.
.PP
The
.PN undo
command never clears the buffer modified condition.
.PP
The
.I z
command prints a number of logical rather than physical lines.
More than a screen full of output may result if long lines are present.
.PP
File input/output errors don't print a name if the command line \fB`\-'\fR
option is used.
.PP
There is no easy way to do a single scan ignoring case.
.PP
The editor does not warn if text is placed in named buffers and not used
before exiting the editor.
.PP
Null characters are discarded in input files, and cannot appear in resultant
files.
.SH FILES
.DT
/usr/lib/ex?.?recover		recover command
.br
/usr/lib/ex?.?preserve		preserve command
.br
/etc/termcap			describes capabilities of terminals
.br
~/.exrc				editor startup file
.br
/tmp/Ex\fInnnnn\fR			editor temporary
.br
/tmp/Rx\fInnnnn\fR			named buffer temporary
.br
/usr/preserve			preservation directory
.SH SEE ALSO
awk(1), ed(1), grep(1), sed(1), vi(1), termcap(5), environ(7)
.br
"Edit: A Tutorial"
and the 
"Ex Reference Manual"
.I ULTRIX-32 Supplementary Documents
Vol. I: General User
