.TH finger 1
.SH NAME
finger \- user information lookup program
.SH SYNTAX
 \fBfinger\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fIname\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
By default,
.B finger
lists the login name, full name, terminal
name and write status,
idle time, login time, and
office location and phone number (if they are known) for
each current ULTRIX user.  Terminal write status is noted
as an asterisk (*) before the terminal name if write
permission is denied.  Idle time is given in minutes if the
listing shows a
single integer, hours and minutes if a colon (:) is present, or
days and hours if a d is present.
.PP
A longer format also exists and is used by 
.B finger 
whenever a
list of people's names is given.  (Account names as well as
first and last names of users are accepted.) This format is
multi-line, and includes all the information described above
as well as the user's home directory and login shell, any
plan which the person has placed in the file .plan 
in their home directory, and the project on which they are working
from the file .project also in their home directory.
.PP
If no list is given, all the people currently logged in are
shown.
.SH OPTIONS
Finger options include:
.TP 5
.B \-b
Give briefer long form list of users.
.TP 5
.B \-f
Disable the printing of headers for short and quick outputs.
.TP 5
.B \-h
Suppress printing of the .project
file.
.TP 5
.B \-i
Show quick list of users with idle times.
.TP 5
.B \-l
Force long output format.
.TP 5
.B \-m
Match arguments only on user name.
.TP 5
.B \-p
Suppress printing of the 
.PN .plan 
file.
.TP 5
.B \-q
Show quick list of users.
.TP 5
.B \-s
Force short output format.
.TP 5
.B \-w
Show narrow short format of specified users.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Only the first line of the
.PN .project
file is printed.
.SH FILES
.TP 18
/etc/utmp
Who file.
.TP 18
/etc/passwd
For users names, offices, and so forth. 
.TP 18
/usr/adm/lastlog
Last login times.
.TP 18
~/.plan
Plans.
.TP 18
~/.project
Projects.
.SH SEE ALSO
w(1), who(1)
