.\" Last modified by BAM on 29-Jul-85  1100  
.\"
.TH ipcrm 1
.SH NAME
ipcrm \- remove a message queue, semaphore set or shared memory identifier
.SH SYNTAX
.ft B
ipcrm [
.IR options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN ipcrm
command
removes one or more specified messages, semaphores or shared memory
identifiers.  The identifiers and keys are specified by the following
.IR options :
.TP 15
-q msqid
removes the message queue identifier
.I msqid
from the system and destroys the message queue and data structure
associated with it.
.TP 15
-m shmid
removes the shared memory identifier
.I shmid
from the system.  The shared memory segment and data structure
associated with it are destroyed after the last detach.
.TP 15
-s semid
removes the semaphore identifier
.I semid
from the system and destroys the set of semaphores and data structure
associated with it.
.TP 15
-Q msgkey
removes the message queue identifier, created with a key 
from the system and destroys the message queue and data
structure associated with it.
.TP 15
-M shmkey
removes the shared memory identifier, created with key
.IR shmkey ,
from the system.  The shared memory segment and data structure
associated with it are destroyed after the last detach.
.TP 15
-S semkey
removes the semaphore identifier, created with key
.IR semkey ,
from the system and destroys the set of semaphores and data structure
associated with it.
.LP
.PP
The details of the removes are described in
.PN msgctl(2),
.PN shmctl(2),
and 
.PN semctl(2).
The identifiers and keys may be found by
.PN ipcs(1).
.SH SEE ALSO
ipcs(1)gctl(2), msgget(2), msgop(2), semctl(2), semget(2), semop(2),
shmctl(2), shmget(2), shmop(2)
