.TH lex 1
.SH NAME
lex \- generator of lexical analysis programs
.SH SYNTAX
.B lex
[
.B \-tvfn
] [ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B lex
command
generates programs to be used in simple lexical analysis of text.
The input
.I files
(standard input default) contain regular expressions
to be searched for, and actions written in C to be executed when
expressions are found.
.PP
A C source program, 'lex.yy.c' is generated, to be compiled thus:
.IP
cc lex.yy.c \-ll
.LP
This program, when run, copies unrecognized portions of
the input to the output, and executes the associated
C action for each regular expression that is recognized.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-t
Place the result on the standard output instead of in file "lex.yy.c".
.TP
.B \-v
Print a one-line summary of statistics of the generated analyzer.
.TP
.B \-n
Opposite of
.BR \-v ;
.B \-n
is default.
.TP
.B \-f
"Faster" compilation: don't bother to pack
the resulting tables; limited to small programs.
.SH EXAMPLE
In the following example, the command
.EX
lex lexcommands
.EE
would draw
.B lex
instructions from the file
.I lexcommands,
and place the output in lex.yy.c.
The command
.EX
%%
[A\-Z]	putchar(yytext[0]+\'a\'\-\'A\');
[ ]+$
[ ]+	putchar(\' \');
.EE
.PP
is an example of a
.B lex
program that would be put into a
.B lex
command file.  This program converts upper case to lower,
removes blanks at the end of lines,
and replaces multiple blanks by single blanks.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sed(1), yacc(1)
.br
``LEX \- Lexical Analyzer Generator,''
.I ULTRIX-32 Supplementary Documents,
Vol. II:Programmer
