.TH login 1
.SH NAME
login \- sign on
.SH SYNTAX
.B login
[ username ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN login
command
is used when a user initially
signs on, or it may be used at any time to change
from one user to another.
The latter case is the one summarized above and
described here.
See the System Management Guide for how to sign on initially.
.PP
If
.PN login
is invoked without an argument,
it asks for a user name, and, if
appropriate, a password.
Echoing is turned off (if possible) during the typing of the password,
so it will not appear on the written record of the
session.
.PP
After a successful login,
accounting files are updated and
the user is informed of the
existence of mail, and
the message of the day is printed,
as is the time he last logged in (unless he has a \*(lq.hushlogin\*(rq
file in his home directory \- this
is mostly used by facilities, such as uucp).
.PP
The
.PN login
command
initializes the user and group IDs and the working directory,
then executes a command interpreter, usually sh(1),
according to specifications found in a password file.
Argument 0 of the command interpreter is \*(lq\-sh\*(rq, or
more generally the name of the command interpreter with
a leading dash (\*(lq\-\*(rq) prepended.
.PP
The 
.PN login 
command also initializes the
environment environ(7)
with information specifying home directory,
command interpreter, terminal
type (if available) and user name.
.PP
If the file /etc/nologin exists
.PN login
prints its contents on the user's terminal and exits. This is
used by shutdown(8)
to stop users logging in when the system is about to go down.
.PP
The
.PN login 
command is recognized by sh(1) 
and csh(1)
and executed directly (without forking).
The
.B \-r
is used by the remote login server, rlogind(8c)
to force
.PN login
to enter into an initial connection protocol.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\*(lqLogin incorrect,\*(rq
if the name or the password is bad.
.br
\*(lqNo Shell\*(rq, \*(lqcannot open password file\*(rq,
\*(lqno directory\*(rq:
consult a programming counselor.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/spool/mail/*\ \ 'u
/etc/utmp	accounting
.br
/usr/adm/wtmp	accounting
.br
/usr/spool/mail/*	mail
.br
/etc/motd	message-of-the-day
.br
/etc/passwd	password file
.br
/etc/nologin	stops logins
.br
\&.hushlogin	makes login quieter
.br
/etc/securetty	lists ttys that root may log in on
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mail(1), passwd(1), yppasswd(1yp), passwd(5yp), environ(7),
getty(8), init(8), rlogind(8c), shutdown(8)
.br
System Management Guide
