.TH lpr 1
.SH NAME
lpr \- off line print
.SH SYNTAX
.B lpr
[
.I option...
]
[
.I file...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN lpr
command uses a spooling daemon to print the named files when facilities
become available.  If no names appear, the standard input is assumed.
The
.B \-P
option may be used to force output to a specific printer.  Normally,
the default printer is used (site dependent), or the value of the
environment variable PRINTER is used.
.SH OPTIONS
The following single letter options are used to notify the line printer
spooler that the files are not standard text files.
The spooling daemon will
use the appropriate filters to print the data accordingly.
.IP \fB\-p\fP 5
Use pr(1) to format the files (equivalent to
.PN print).
.IP \fB\-P\fP 5
Use to direct output to a specific printer
.IP \fB\-l\fP 5
Use a filter which allows control characters
to be printed and suppresses page breaks.
.IP \fB\-t\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain data from troff(1)
(cat phototypesetter commands).
.IP \fB\-n\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain data from
.B ditroff (device independent troff).
.IP \fB\-d\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain data from TeX
(DVI format from Stanford).
.IP \fB\-g\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain standard plot data as produced by the
plot(3x) routines (see also plot(1g)
for the filters used by the printer spooler).
.IP \fB\-v\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain a raster image for devices. 
.IP \fB\-c\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain data produced by cifplot.
.IP \fB\-f\fP 5
Use a filter which interprets the first character of each line as a
standard FORTRAN carriage control character.
.PP
The remaining single letter options are: 
.IP \fB\-r\fP 5
Remove the file upon completion of spooling or upon completion of
printing (with the \fB\-s\fP option).
.IP \fB\-m\fP 5
Send mail upon completion.
.IP \fB\-h\fP 5
Suppress the printing of the burst page.
.IP \fB\-x\fP 5
Transparent filter.  Allows data to be sent to printer unchanged.
.PP 
The following options take an argument:
.IP \fB\-C\fP 5
The argument is the job classification
for use on the burst page.  For example,
.PP
.ti +0.5i
lpr \-C EECS foo.c
.PP
causes the system name, the name returned by hostname(1),
to be replaced on the burst page by EECS,
and the file foo.c to be printed.
.PP
.IP \fB\-J\fP 5
The argument is the job name to print on the burst page.
Normally, the first file's name is used.
.PP
.IP \fB\-T\fP 5
The argument is the title used by
pr(1) instead of the file name.
.PP
.IP \fB\-# num\fP 
Produces multiple copies of output.  The argument
.I num
is the number of copies desired of each file named.  For example,
.PP
.ti +0.5i
lpr \-#3 foo.c bar.c more.c
.PP
results in 3 copies of the file foo.c, followed by 3 copies
of the file bar.c, etc.  On the other hand, 
.PP
.ti +0.5i
cat foo.c bar.c more.c | lpr \-#3
.PP
will give three copies of the linked files.
.PP
.IP \fB\-i\fP 5
Causes the output to be indented the specified number of
blank spaces.  If a numeric number is not specified,
the output is indented 8 blank characters.
This option is to be used in conjunction with the
.B \-f
and 
.B \-l
options only.
.PP
.IP \fB\-w\fP 5
Takes the immediately following number to be
the page width for
.B pr.
.PP
.IP \fB\-z\fP 5
Takes the immediately following number to be
the page length for
.B pr.
.PP
.IP \fB\-s\fP 5
Uses  symlink(2)
to link data files rather than trying to copy them. 
This means the files should
not be modified or removed until they have been printed.
.PP
.IP \fB\-1234\fP 5
Specifies a font to be mounted on font position \fIi\fR.  The daemon
will construct a \fI.railmag\fR file referencing
/usr/lib/vfont/name.size.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Fonts for troff and TeX
reside on the host with the printer. It is currently not possible to
use local font libraries.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Files with more than 1025024 bytes which are spooled to a remote
machine are truncated to 1025024 bytes.
The 
.PN lpr
command
will not print binary files.
If a user other than root prints a file and spooling is disabled,
.PN lpr
will print a disabled message and will not put jobs in the queue.
If a connection to
.PN lpd
on the local machine cannot be made,
.PN lpr
will print that the daemon cannot be started.
Diagnostics may be printed in the daemon's log file
regarding missing spool files by using
.PN lpd .
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'/usr/spool/*/cf*       'u
/etc/passwd	personal identification
/etc/printcap	printer capabilities data base
/usr/lib/lpd*	line printer daemons
/usr/spool/*	directories used for spooling
/usr/spool/*/cf*	daemon control files
/usr/spool/*/df*	data files specified in "cf" files
/usr/spool/*/tf*	temporary copies of "cf" files
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lpq(1), lprm(1), pr(1), symlink(2), printcap(5), lpc(8), lpd(8)
