.TH ls 1
.SH NAME
ls \- list contents of directory
.SH SYNTAX
.PP
.B ls 
[ \-\fBacdfgilqrstuCFR\fR ] \fIname\fR... 
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each directory argument,
.B ls
lists the contents of the directory.  For each file
argument,
.B ls
repeats the file name and gives any other information you
request with the options available.  By default, the list
is sorted alphabetically.
When no argument is given, the current directory
is listed.
When several arguments
are given, files are listed first,
followed by directories and the files
within each directory.
Options are listed below.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-1\fR
forces the output format to be one entry per line.  This is the
default when output is not to a terminal.
.IP \fB\-a\fR
lists all entries. 
Without this option, names that begin with a period (.) are not
listed.
.IP \fB\-c\fR
uses the time the file attributes were changed for sorting or printing.
.IP \fB\-C\fR
forces multicolumn output.  This is the default when the output
is to a terminal.
.IP \fB\-d\fR
lists only the directory name if an argument is a directory.  Use
this option
with \fB\-l\fR to get the status of
a directory.
.IP \fB\-f\fR
lists the files within directories, in
the order they appear in the directory file (see 
.MS dir 5 ).
Entries beginning
with a period (.) are also listed.  This option overrides the
\fB\-l, \-t, \-s,\fR and \fB\-r\fR options.
.IP \fB\-F\fR
causes directories to be marked with a trailing slash (/), sockets
with a trailing equal sign (=), symbolic links with a trailing 
at sign (@),
and executable files with a trailing asterisk (*).  
.IP \fB\-g\fR
includes the group ownership of the file in a long output.
To be used in conjunction with the \fB\-l\fR option.
.IP \fB\-i\fR
prints the i-number for each file in the first column
of the report.
.IP \fB\-l\fR
lists the mode, number of links, owner,
size in bytes, and time of last modification for each file.
If the file is a special file, the size field 
contains the major and minor device numbers instead of the size.
If the file is
a symbolic link, the pathname of the linked-to file is printed,
preceded by ``\->''.
.IP
The mode field consists of 11 characters.  The first
character indicates the type of entry:
.IP
\fBd\fR if the entry is a directory
.br
\fBb\fR if the entry is a block-type special file
.br
\fBc\fR if the entry is a character-type special file
.br
\fBl\fR if the entry is a symbolic link
.br
\fBs\fR if the entry is a socket
.br
\fB\-\fR if the entry is a plain file
.IP
The next 9 characters are interpreted as three sets of
three characters each.  The first set of three characters
refers to file-access permissions for the user; the next
set, for the user-group; and the last set, for all others.
The permissions are indicated as follows:
.IP
\fBr\fR if the file is readable
.br
\fBw\fR if the file is writable
.br
\fBx\fR if the file is executable
.br
\fB\-\fR if the indicated permission is not granted.
.IP
The group-execute permission character is given as \fBs\fR
if the file has the set-group-id bit set; likewise, the
user-execute permission character is given as \fBs\fR if the
file has the set-user-id bit set.
.IP
The last character of the mode (normally `x' or `\-') is
\fBt\fR if the 1000 bit of the mode is on.  See
.MS chmod 1
for the meaning of this mode.
.IP \fB\-L\fR
lists the information, if the file is a symbolic link, for
the file or directory the link references rather than that
for the link itself.
.IP \fB\-q\fR
forces the printing of nongraphic characters in file names as the
question mark character (?).
This is the default when output is to a
terminal.
.IP \fB\-r\fR
reverses the order of the sort.
If used with the \fBt\fR option, 
.PN ls 
lists the oldest
file first.
.IP \fB\-R\fR
lists subdirectories recursively.
.IP \fB\-s\fR
gives the size in kilobytes of each file.
This is the first item listed in each entry.
.IP \fB\-t\fR
sorts by time modified (latest first) instead of by name.
.IP \fB\-u\fR
uses the time of last access instead of last modification for
sorting (with the \fB\-t\fR option) or printing
(with the \fB\-l\fR option).
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The output device is assumed to be 80 columns wide.
.PP
Newline and tab are considered printing characters in file names.
.PP
The option setting based on whether the output is a teletype
is undesirable as "ls -s" is much different than "ls -s |lpr".
On the other hand, not doing this setting would make old shell
scripts which used
.B ls
almost certain to fail.
.SH FILES
.IP \fB/etc/fstab\fR 1i
Used to obtain user id's for \fBls \-l\fR
.IP \fB/etc/group\fR 1i
Used to obtain group id's for \fBls \-g\fR
