.TH mdtar 1 
.SH NAME
mdtar \- multiple diskette archiver
.SH SYNTAX
.B mdtar
[ key ] [ name ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.PN mdtar 
command saves multiple files on  multiple archives (usually an  RX50
diskette, but any file/device may be specified).  
.PN mdtar 
actions are controlled by the
.B key
argument.  The
.B key
is a string of characters containing one function letter and 
one or more function modifiers.  Other arguments to 
.PN mdtar
are file or directory names specifying which files to dump or restore.
In all cases, appearance of a directory name refers to
the files and, recursively, subdirectories of that directory. 
.PN mdtar
also saves special files.
.PP
The function portion of the key is specified by a letter.
.TP 8
.B c
Create a new archive.  Writing begins at 
the beginning of the archive
instead of after the last file.  
.TP 8
.B r
Write the named files to the end of the archive.
.TP 8
.B t
Produce a Table of Contents listing the names of the designated 
files each time they occur on
the archive.  If no file argument is given, all 
of the names on the archive
are listed.  Produce a Table of contents.
.TP 8
.B u
Update the current archive.  Adds the named files to the archive, if 
they are not there already or if they have been modified 
since last put on the archive.
.TP 8
.B x
Extract the named files from the archive.  If the named file
matches a directory whose contents had been written onto the archive, this
directory is recursively extracted.  The owner, modification time, and mode
are restored if you are the superuser and if you have
also specified the 
.B p
switch.  If no file argument is given, the entire content
of the archive is extracted.  
If multiple entries specifying the same
file are on the archive, the last one overwrites previous versions. 
.TP 8
.PP
.sp
The following characters may be used to qualify the function desired in addition to one or more of the above letters.
.TP 10
.B 0...9
Select unit number of the drive as an alternate disk drive. 
The default disk drive is the device named /dev/rra1a.
.TP 10
.B A
Use the next argument as the "Archive" number to begin output. This switch
is intended for error recovery. 
.B mdtar 
outputs files in terms of Archives.
Each Archive contains a number of files. If 
.PN mdtar 
has been requested to dump
a path  (set of files) that consist of (for example) 10 archives and there is
an error writing the nth Archive, then the A modifier may be used to restart
.PN mdtar
at the nth Archive. 
.NT CAUTION
You must issue the same
path (set of files) as in the first command. This will guarantee that 
.PN mdtar
will begin at the correct file on Archive n. 
.NE
If the v mode is specified, 
.PN mdtar 
outputs informational
messages to inform the 
user of progress.
For example, the following command will dump 
the entire directory structure:
.EX
mdtar cv \*   
.EE
If an error occurs on Archive 7, 
to restart at the 7th Archive, without having to
re-dump the first 6 Archives, issue the following command:
.EX
mdtar cvA 7 \*
.EE
.PN mdtar 
will tell you it is skipping the first 6 Archives and will resume
output with the data that begins Archive 7.
.TP 10
.B b
Use the next argument as the blocking factor for archive records. The
default is 20 (the maximum is 1024).
.TP 10
.B B
Forces output blocking to 20 blocks per record. 
.TP 10
.B f
Use the next argument as the name of the archive instead of the 
/dev/rra1a default.
If the name of the file is \-, tar writes to
standard output (piping).
.TP 10
.B "F[ F ]"
operate in fast mode.
When
.B F
is specified,
.PN mdtar
skips all SCCS directories, core files, and errs files.
When
.B FF
is specified,
.B mdtar
also skips all a.out and *.o files.
.TP 10
.B h
Save a copy of the file on the output device and do 
not save symbolic link information. 
The default action of mdtar is to place symbolic link
information on the output device. A copy of the file IS NOT
saved on the output device. 
.TP 10
.B \i
Ignore checksum errors found in the archive.
.TP 10
.B l
Print an error message if all links to the
files dumped cannot be resolved. If -l is not specified, no error
messages are printed.
.TP 10
.B m
Do not restore the modification times.  The modification time
is the time of extraction.  Normally, 
.PN mdtar
restores modification times of regular and special files.
.TP 10
.B o
Suppress the normal directory information.  On output,
.PN mdtar
normally places information specifying owner and modes of directories
in the archive.  Former versions of
.B tar,
when encountering this information will give the error message
.EX
<name>/: cannot create.
.EE
.TP 10
.B p
Restore the named files to their original modes,
ignoring the present
.B umask (2).
Setuid and sticky information
will also be restored to the super-user. You must be Superuser to perform this option.
(See stat(2), S_ISVTX)
.TP 10
.B s
The next argument specifies the size of the output archive media in 
blocks (each block contains 512 bytes).
This enables 
.PN mdtar 
to be used with devices of different physical media
sizes. The default is 800 blocks (assumption is an RX50 output Archive).
.TP 10
.B v
Write the name of each file treated, preceded by the function
letter, to diagnostic output.  
Normally
.PN mdtar 
does its work silently.
With the
.B t
function, the verbose option
gives more information about the archive entries than just their names.
.TP 10
.B w
Print the action to be taken followed by file name, then
wait for user confirmation. If a word beginning with `y'
is given, the action is done. Any other input means do not do it.
.PP
If a file name is preceded by 
.BR \-C ,
then 
.PN mdtar
will perform a
.B chdir (2)
to that file name.  This allows multiple directories not
related by a close common parent, to be archived using short
relative path names.  For example, to archive files from /usr/include
and from /etc, one might use
.EX
tar c -C /usr include . -C /etc .
.EE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.br
The 
.B u
option can be slow.
.br
The current limit on file name length is 100 characters.
.br
There is no way to follow symbolic links selectively.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Indicates bad key characters and archive read/write errors.
.br
Indicates if enough memory is not available to hold the link tables.
.SH FILES
.br
/tmp/tar*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
stat(2), tar(1)
