.TH prof 1 
.SH NAME
prof \- display profile data
.SH SYNTAX
.B prof
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-z
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-v
[
.BI \- "low\fR [ \fB\-\fIhigh\fR ]"
] ]
[ file1
[ file2... ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN prof
command interprets the file produced by the
.PN monitor(3)
subroutine.
Under default modes,
the symbol table in the
named object file
(a.out
default)
is read and correlated with the
profile file
(mon.out
default).
For each external symbol, the percentage
of time spent executing between that symbol
and the next
is printed (in decreasing order),
together with the number of times that routine was called
and the number of milliseconds per call.
If more than one profile file is specified,
the output represents the sum of the profiles.
.PP
In order for the number of calls to a routine to be tallied,
the
.B \-p
option of
.PN cc(1),
.PN f77(1)
or
.PN pc(1)
must have been given when the file containing the
routine was compiled.
This option also arranges for the
profile file to be produced automatically.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.B \-a
all symbols are reported rather than
just external symbols.
.TP
.B \-l
the output is sorted by symbol value.
.TP
.B \-n
the output is sorted by number of calls
.TP
.B \-s
a summary profile file is produced in mon.sum.
This is useful only
when more than one profile file is specified.
.TP
.B \-v
all printing is suppressed
and a graphic version of the profile
is produced
on the standard output for display by the
.PN plot(1g) 
filters.
When plotting, the numbers
.I low
and 
.I high,
by default 0 and 100, may be given, which causes a selected
percentage of the profile to be plotted
with accordingly higher resolution.
.TP
.B \-z
routines which have zero usage, as indicated by call counts
and accumulated time, are printed in the output.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Beware of quantization errors.
.PP
The
.PN f77
command causes confusion because the entry points are 
at the bottom of subroutines and functions.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'mon.out  'u
mon.out	for profile
.br
a.out		for namelist
.br
mon.sum	for summary profile
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cc(1), plot(1g), profil(2), monitor(3)
