.\" Last modified by MJT on 27-Aug-85  0001
.\"  Repaired beginning matter to work right in whatis database
'\" t
.tr ~
.nr f 0
.bd S B 3
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\f3\-\\$1\fP\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de SF
.if n .ul
\%[\f3\-\\$1\fP]
.if n .ul 0
..
.de AR
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\f3\-\\$1\\fP
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\f3\-\\$1\fP[\f2\\$2\^\fP]
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.ds S)  \s-1SCCS\s+1
.ds I)  \s-1SID\s+1
.TH prs 1
.SH NAME
prs \- print an SCCS file
.SH SYNTAX
.B prs
.SP d [dataspec]]
.SP r [\s-1SID\s+1]]
.SF e
.SF l
.SF a
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN prs
command prints on the standard output all or parts of an \*(S) file
in a user supplied format.
For further information, see 
.PN sccsfile(5).
If a directory is named,
.PN prs
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\*(S) files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \f3s.\fP),
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of \f3\-\fP is given, the standard input is read;
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
or directory
to be processed;
non-\*(S) files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
.PP
Arguments to
.PN prs ,
which may appear in any order, consist of
keyletter arguments, and file names.
.PP
All the described
keyletter arguments apply independently to each named file:
.A1 d dataspec Used
to specify the output data specification.
The
.I dataspec\^
is a string consisting of \*(S) file
.I "data keywords\^"
(see
.BR "\s-1DATA KEYWORDS\s+1" )
interspersed with optional user supplied text.
.A1 r \s-1SID\s+1 Used
to specify the SCCS identification (SID)
string of a delta for
which information is desired.
If no \*(I) is specified, the \*(I) of the most recently created delta
is assumed.
.AR e Requests
information for all deltas created
earlier than and including the delta designated by the
.B \-r
keyletter.
.AR l Requests
information for all deltas created
later than and including the delta designated by the
.B \-r
keyletter.
.AR a Requests
printing of information for both removed
and existing deltas.
For example, removed delta type =
.IR R ,
and existing delta type =
.IR D .
For further information, see 
.PN rmdel(1).
If the
.B \-a
keyletter is not specified,
information is provided only for existing deltas. 
.PP
.i0
.SH "DATA KEYWORDS"
Data keywords
specify which parts of an \*(S) file are to be retrieved and 
printed on the standard output.
All parts of an \*(S) file 
have an associated data keyword.
For further information, see 
.PN sccsfile(5).
There is no limit on the number of times a data keyword
may appear in a
.IR dataspec .
.PP
The information printed by
.PN prs\^
consists of
the user supplied text and
the appropriate values (extracted from the \*(S) file)
substituted for the recognized data keywords
in the order of appearance in the \f2dataspec\^\fP.
The format of a data keyword value is either
.I Simple\^
(S), in which
keyword substitution is direct, or
.I "Multi-line\^"
(M), in which keyword substitution is followed
by a carriage return.
.PP
User supplied text
is any text other than
recognized data keywords.
A tab is specified
by \f3\et\fP and carriage return/new-line is specified by \f3\en\fP.
.in 0
.if t .ps -1
.if t .vs -1p
.ps 10
.TS
center;
c s s s s
cI lI cI cI cI
a1 l1 c1 c1 a.
Table 1. \s-1SCCS\s+1 Files Data Keywords
.sp .5
Keyword	Data Item	File Section	Value	Format
:Dt:	Delta Information	Delta Table	See below*	S
.T&
a l a c a.
:DL:	Delta line statistics	"	:Li:/:Ld:/:Lu:	S
:Li:	Lines inserted by Delta	"	nnnnn	S
:Ld:	Lines deleted by Delta	"	nnnnn	S
:Lu:	Lines unchanged by Delta	"	nnnnn	S
:DT:	Delta type	"	\fID\fR or \fIR\fR	S
:I:	SCCS ID string (SID)	"	:R:.:L:.:B:.:S:	S
:R:	Release number	"	nnnn	S
:L:	Level number	"	nnnn	S
:B:	Branch number	"	nnnn	S
:S:	Sequence number	"	nnnn	S
:D:	Date Delta created	"	:Dy:/:Dm:/:Dd:	S
:Dy:	Year Delta created	"	nn	S
:Dm:	Month Delta created	"	nn	S
:Dd:	Day Delta created	"	nn	S
:T:	Time Delta created	"	:Th:::Tm:::Ts:	S
:Th:	Hour Delta created	"	nn	S
:Tm:	Minutes Delta created	"	nn	S
:Ts:	Seconds Delta created	"	nn	S
:P:	Programmer who created Delta	"	logname	S
:DS:	Delta sequence number	"	nnnn	S
:DP:	Predecessor Delta seq-no.	"	nnnn	S
:DI:	Seq-no. of deltas incl., excl., ignored	"	:Dn:/:Dx:/:Dg:	S
:Dn:	Deltas included (seq #)	"	:DS: :DS:...	S
:Dx:	Deltas excluded (seq #)	"	:DS: :DS:...	S
:Dg:	Deltas ignored (seq #)	"	:DS: :DS:...	S
:MR:	MR numbers for delta	"	text	M
:C:	Comments for delta	"	text	M
.T&
a l c c a.
:UN:	User names	User names	text	M
:FL:	Flag list	Flags	text	M
.T&
a l a c a.
:Y:	Module type flag	"	text	S
:MF:	MR validation flag	"	\fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR	S
:MP:	MR validation pgm name	"	text	S
:KF:	Keyword error/warning flag	"	\fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR	S
:KV:	Keyword validation string	"	text	S
:BF:	Branch flag	"	\fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR	S
:J:	Joint edit flag	"	\fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR	S
:LK:	Locked releases	"	:R:...	S
:Q:	User-defined keyword	"	text	S
:M:	Module name	"	text	S
:FB:	Floor boundary	"	:R:	S
:CB:	Ceiling boundary	"	:R:	S
:Ds:	Default SID	"	:I:	S
:ND:	Null delta flag	"	\fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR	S
.T&
a l c c a.
:FD:	File descriptive text	Comments	text	M
:BD:	Body	Body	text	M
.T&
a l a c a.
:GB:	Gotten body	"	text	M
.T&
a l a c a.
:W:	A form of \fIwhat\fR (1) string	N/A	:Z::M::I:	S
:A:	A form of \fIwhat\fR (1) string	N/A	:Z::Y: :M: :I::Z:	S
:Z:	\fIwhat\fR (1) string delimiter	N/A	@(#)	S
:F:	SCCS file name	N/A	text	S
:PN:	SCCS file path name	N/A	text	S
.TE
.LP
.in +3
*:Dt: = :Dt: :I: :D: :T: :P: :DS: :DP:
.ps 10
.SH EXAMPLES
This is an example of a prs command line and what it will produce on
the standard output.
.EX
prs \-d"Users and/or user \s-1ID\s+1s for \f3:\fPF\f3:\fP are\f3:\fP\en\f3:\fP\s-1UN\s+1\f3:\fP" s\f3.\fPfile
.PP
.RS
.nf
Users and/or user \s-1ID\s+1s for s\f3.\fPfile are\f3:\fP
xyz
131
abc
.fi
.RE
.EE
.LP
This is another example and its output.
.EX
prs \-d"Newest delta for pgm \f3:\fPM\f3:\fP\f3:\fP \f3:\fPI\f3:\fP Created \f3:\fPD\f3:\fP By \f3:\fPP\f3:\fP" \-r s\f3.\fPfile
.PP
.IP
Newest delta for pgm main\f3.\fPc\f3:\fP 3\f3.\fP7 Created 77/12/1 By case
.EE
.PP
This is an example of a \f2special case:\^\fP
.EX
prs s\f3.\fPfile
.EE
.PP
This is what it may produce on the standard output:
.PP
.RS
D 1\f3.\fP1 77/12/1 00\f3:\fP00\f3:\fP00 cas 1 000000/00000/00000
\s-1MR\s+1s\f3:\fP
bl78-12345
bl79-54321
\s-1COMMENTS\s+1\f3:\fP
this is the comment line for s\f3.\fPfile initial delta
for each delta table entry of the ``D'' type.
The only keyletter argument allowed to be used with the
.I "special case"
is the
.B \-a
keyletter.
.RE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
See
.PN sccshelp(1)
for explanations.
.SH FILES
.RE
.TP 10
/tmp/pr?????
.i0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
admin(1), delta(1), get(1), help(1), sccs(1), sccsfile(5)
.br
System Management Guide
