.TH pxp 1
.SH NAME
pxp \- Pascal execution profiler
.SH SYNTAX
.B pxp
[
.B  \-acdefjnstuw_
] [
.B \-23456789
] [
.B \-z
[ name ... ] ] name.p
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pxp
command
can be used to obtain execution profiles of Pascal programs or
as a pretty-printer.
To produce an execution profile all that is necessary is to translate
the program specifying the
.B z
option to
.B pi
or
.B pix,
to execute the program,
and to then issue the command
.EX
pxp -z name.p
.EE
A reformatted listing is output if none of the
.BR c ,
.BR t ,
or
.B  z
options are specified;
thus
.EX
pxp old.p > new.p
.EE
places a pretty-printed version of the program
in old.p in the file new.p.
.PP
The use of the following options of
.B pxp
is discussed in sections 2.6, 5.4, 5.5 and 5.10 of the
.IR "Berkeley Pascal User's Manual" "."
.TP 6
.B  \-a
Print the bodies of all procedures and functions in the profile;
even those which were never executed.
.TP 6
.B  \-c
Extract profile data from the file
.IR core .
.TP 6
.B  \-d
Include declaration parts in a profile.
.TP 6
.B  \-e
Eliminate
.B include
directives when reformatting a file;
the
.B include
is replaced by the reformatted contents of the specified
file.
.TP 6
.B  \-f
Fully parenthesize expressions.
.TP 6
.B  \-j
Left justify all procedures and functions.
.TP 6
.B  \-n
Eject a new page 
as each file is included;
in profiles, print a blank line at the top of the page.
.TP 6
.B  \-s
Strip comments from the input text.
.TP 6
.B  \-t
Print a table summarizing
.B  procedure
and
.B  function
call counts.
.TP 6
.B  \-u
Card image mode; only the first 72 characters of input lines
are used.
.TP 6
.B  \-w
Suppress warning diagnostics.
.TP 6
.B  \-z
Generate an execution profile.
If no
.IR name \|s,
are given the profile is of the entire program.
If a list of names is given, then only any specified
.BR procedure s
or
.BR function s
and the contents of any specified
.B include
files will appear in the profile.
.TP 6
.B  \-\_
Underline keywords.
.TP 6
.BI \- d
With
.I  d
a digit, 2 \(<=
.IR d ""
\(<= 9,
causes
.I pxp
to use
.IR d ""
spaces as the basic indenting unit.
The default is 4.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Does not place multiple statements per line.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
For a basic explanation do
.EX
pxp
.EE
Error diagnostics include
`No profile data in file'
with the
.B c
option if the
.B z
option was not enabled to
.B pi;
`Not a Pascal system core file'
if the core is not from a
.B px
execution;
`Program and count data do not correspond'
if the program was changed after compilation, before profiling;
or if the wrong program is specified.
.SH FILES
.DT
name.p		input file
.br
name.i		include file(s)
.br
pmon.out		profile data
.br
core			profile data source with
.B  \-c
.br
/usr/lib/how_pxp	information on basic usage
.br
.ne 8
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pi(1), px(1)
.br
"Berkeley Pascal User's Manual,"
.I ULTRIX-32 Supplementary Documents
Vol. II:Programmer
