.\" Last modified by MJT on 17-Feb-86  1226
.\"  Fixed error discovered in salt prints (removed Begin string)
.\"  			(MJT 17-Feb-86)
.\"
.TH rcp 1c
.SH NAME
rcp \- remote file copy
.SH SYNTAX
.B rcp
file1 file2
.br
.B rcp
[
.B \-r
] file ... directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B rcp
command
copies files between machines.  Each
.I file
or
.I directory
argument is either a remote file name of the
form ``rhost:path'', or a local file name (containing no `:' characters,
or a `/' before any `:'s.)
.LP
The 
.B rcp 
command refuses to copy a file onto itself.
.LP
If the
.B \-r
is specified and any of the source files are directories,
.I rcp
copies each subtree rooted at that name; in this case
the destination must be a directory.
.PP
If
.I path
is not a full path name, it is interpreted relative to
your login directory on 
.IR rhost .
A 
.I path
on a remote host may be quoted (using \e, ", or \(aa)
so that the metacharacters are interpreted remotely.
.PP
The
.B rcp
does not prompt for passwords; your current local user name
must exist on
.I rhost
and allow remote command execution via
rsh(1c).
.PP
The
.B rcp
command
handles third party copies, where neither source nor target files
are on the current machine.
Hostnames may also take the form ``rhost.rname'' to use
.I rname
rather than the current user name on the remote host.
If you use the host.name syntax, then
.I host.name
of the source should be included in the
.I rhosts
of the target account.  Using
.I $> rcp mach1.user1:foo  mach2.user2:foo
as an example:
The file .rhosts with an entry for mach1 user1
should be on mach2 in user2's account.  Also note
that it may be necessary for the person implementing the 
.B rcp
command to be listed in the .rhosts file for mach1 user1.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Doesn't detect all cases where the target of a copy might
be a file in cases where only a directory should be legal.
.br
Is confused by any output generated by commands in a
\&.login, \&.profile, or \&.cshrc file on the remote host.
.SH SEE ALSO
ftp(1c),
rlogin(1c),
rsh(1c) 
