.\" Last modified by MJT on 27-Aug-85  0001
.\"  Repaired beginning matter to work right in whatis database
.TH rmdel 1
.SH NAME
rmdel \- remove a delta from an SCCS file
.SH SYNTAX
.B rmdel
.if n .ul
\fB\-r\fR\c
.if n .ul 0
\s-1SID\s0
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN rmdel
command 
removes the delta specified by the
.SM \fISID\fP
from each
named \s-1SCCS\s+1 file.
The delta to be removed must be the most recent delta
in its branch in the delta chain of each
named \s-1SCCS\s+1 file.
In addition,
the \*(I) specified delta must
not be that of a version being edited for the purpose of
making a delta, for example,  
if a
.I p-file\^
exists for the named \s-1SCCS\s+1 file,
the \*(I) specified delta must not
appear in any entry of the
.I p-file\c\^
).
For further information, see 
.PN get(1).
.PP
If a directory is named,
.PN rmdel
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\s-1SCCS\s+1 files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \fBs.\fR)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If \- is given as the name, the standard input is read and
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \s-1SCCS\s+1 file
to be processed.
Non-\s-1SCCS\s+1 files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
.PP
Certain permissions are necessary to remove a delta.
If you make a delta or own the file and directory, you can remove it. 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.PN sccshelp(1)
for explanations.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
x-file
For further information, see 
.PN delta(1).
.TP 10
z-file
For further information see 
.PN delta(1).
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
delta(1), get(1), help(1), prs(1), sccs(1), sccsfile(5)
.br
System Management Guide
