.TH roffbib 1
.SH NAME
roffbib \- run off bibliographic database
.SH SYNTAX
.B roffbib
[ options ] [ file... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN roffbib
command prints out all records in a bibliographic database,
in bibliography format rather than as footnotes or endnotes.
Generally it is used in conjunction with
.PN sortbib :
.LP
.EX
sortbib  database | roffbib
.EE
.LP
The
.PN roffbib
command accepts most of the options understood by
nroff(1). 
Most improtantly, the
.B \-T
flag is used to specify terminal type.
.PP
If abstracts or comments are entered following the %X field key,
.PN roffbib
will format them into paragraphs for an annotated bibliography.
Several %X fields may be given if several
annotation paragraphs are desired.
The
.B \-x
flag suppresses the printing of these abstracts.
.PP
The
.B \-e
flag produces equally-spaced words in adjusted lines, using full
terminal resolution.
.PP
The
.B \h
flag uses output tabs during horizontal spacing to speed 
output and reduce output character count. 
Tab characters are assumed to be every 8 nominal character widths.
.PP
The
.B \-n
.I N
flag numbers the first generated page.
.PP
.B \-o
.I list
flag prints only pages whose page numbers appear in the
comma-separated \fIlist\fR of numbers and ranges.  A range 
.I N\-M
means pages 
.I N
through
.I M.
An initial 
.I \-N 
means from the beginning to page
.I N.
A final 
.I N\-
means from
.I N
to the end.
.PP
The
.B \-s
.I N
flag means stop at every
.I N
pages.
.PP
A user-defined set of macros
may be specified after the
.B \-m
option.
There should be a space between the
.B \-m
and the macro filename.
This set of macros will replace the ones
defined in /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.bib.
The
.B \-V
flag will send output to the Versatec; the
.B \-Q
flag will queue output for the phototypesetter.
.PP
Four command-line registers control formatting style
of the bibliography, much like the number registers of
ms(7).
The command-line argument
.BR \-r N1
will number
the references starting at one (1).
The flag
.BR \-r V2
will double space the biblio\%graphy,
while
.BR \-r V1
will double space references
but single space annotation paragraphs.
The line length can be changed from the default 6.5 inches
to 6 inches with the
.BR \-r L6i
argument,
and the page offset can be set from the default of 0
to one inch by specifying
.BR \-r O1i
(capital O, not zero).
Note: with the
.B \-V
and
.B \-Q
flags
the default page offset is already one inch.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.bib\0\0'u
.nf
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.bib	file of macros used by \fInroff/troff\fP
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
addbib(1), indxbib(1), lookbib(1), refer(1), sortbib(1)
