.TH tar 1
.SH NAME
tar \- tape archiver
.SH SYNTAX
.B tar
[ \fIkey\fR ] [ \fIname...\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The tape archiver command,
.PN tar,
saves and restores multiple files to and from a single archive.
The default archive device is /dev/rmt0h,
but any file or device may be requested through the use of options.
.PP
The
.I key
is a string of characters containing at most one function
letter and possibly names specifying which files to dump or 
restore.
In all cases, appearance of a directory name refers to the files and
(recursively) subdirectories of that directory.
.PP
This utility supports EOT handling which allows the use of
multiple media.  The utility prompts for the next volume when it
encounters the end of the current volume.
.SH KEYS
The function portion of the key is specified by one of
the following letters:
.TP 8
.B c
Create a new archive on tape, disk or file.
Writing starts at the beginning of the archive
instead of after the last file.
.TP 8
.B r
Write the named files to the end of the archive.
.TP 8
.B t
List the names of the files as they occur on the input archive.
.TP 8
.B u
Add the named files to the archive if they are not
there already or if they have been modified since they were
last put in the archive.
.TP 8
.B x
Extract the named files from the archive.
If the named file matches a directory whose contents
had been written into the archive,
the directory is recursively extracted.
The owner, modification time,
and mode are restored, if possible.
If no file argument is given, the entire content
of the archive is extracted.
Note that if multiple entries specifying the same
file are in the archive,
the last one overwrites all previous versions extracted.
.SH OPTIONS
You can use one or more of the following options in
addition to the letter which selects the function
desired.
.TP 10
.B B
Force input and output blocking to 20 blocks/record. 
This option allows
.B tar
to work across a communications channel where the blocking may not
be maintained.
.TP 10
.B C
Use to perform a directory change prior to archiving data.
.TP 10
.B "\F[ F ]"
Operate in 
.I fast mode .
When
.B \-F
is specified,
.PN tar
skips all SCCS directories, core files, and error files.
When
.B \-FF
is specified,
.PN tar
also skips all
.PN a.out
and
.B *.o
files.
.TP 10
.B H
Help mode.
Print a summary of the function keys and options.
.TP 10
.B V
Display extended verbose information.
Included are the version number of
.B tar,
the number of blocks used on the device,
the number of blocks in a file,
and the protection modes given in a format similar to the
.B ls
.B \-l
command.
In addition to this information,
.B V
provides the information given by the
.B v
option.
.TP 10
.B b
Use the next argument as the blocking factor for tape records.
The default is 20 (the maximum is 1024).
This option should only be used with raw magnetic tape archives (See 
the
.B f
option).
The block size is determined automatically
when reading tapes (
.B x
and \fBt\fR)
keys.
.TP 10
.B d
Use /dev/rra1a
as the default device (blocking factor of 10).
.TP 10
.B f
Use the next argument as the name of the archive instead of
/dev/rmt0h.
If the name of the file is
.B \- ,
.PN tar
writes to standard output or
reads from standard input,
whichever is appropriate.
Thus,
.PN tar
can be used as the head or tail of a filter chain.
You can also use
.PN tar
to move hierarchies.
The following example shows how to move the directory
.I fromdir
to the directory
.I todir :
.EX
# cd fromdir; tar cf \- . | (cd todir; tar xf \-)
.EE
.TP
.B h
Save a copy of the actual file on the output device under the
symbolic link name,
instead of placing the symbolic information on the output.
The default action of
.PN tar
is to place symbolic link information on the output device.
A copy of the file itself is not saved on the output device.
.TP
.B i
Ignore checksum errors found in the archive.
.TP 10
.B l
Complain if
.PN tar
cannot resolve all of the links to the files dumped.
If this is not specified,
no error messages are printed.
.TP 10
.B m
Do not restore the modification times.
The modification time will be the time of extraction.
Tar normally restores modification times of regular and
special files.
.TP 10
.B o
Suppress the normal directory information.  On output, 
.B tar
normally places information specifying owner and modes of 
directories in the archive.  Former versions of tar, when
encountering this information will give error message of the 
form,
.EX
<name>/: cannot create
.EE
.PN tar
will place information specifying owner and modes
of directories in the archive.
.TP 10
.B 0...9
Substitute number for the device unit number as in /dev/rmt#h.
The default is the high density rewind tape device number zero named /dev/rmt0h.
.EX
The command "tar cv4 tar.c" uses device /dev/rmt4h.
.EE
.TP 10
.B p
Restore the named files to their original modes,
ignoring the present umask(2).
Setuid and sticky bit information
is also restored to the superuser.
.TP 10
.B v
Write the name of each file treated,
preceded by the function letter,
to diagnostic output.  
Normally,
.PN tar
does its work silently.
With the
.B t
function key,
the verbose option provides more information about the
tape entries than just their names.
.TP 10
.B w
Print the action to be taken, followed by file name,
then wait for user confirmation.
If a word beginning with the letter
.B y
is given,
the action is done.
Any other input means do not do it.
.SH EXAMPLES
To archive files from /usr/include
and /etc,
type:
.EX
# tar c \-C /usr/include . \-C /etc .
.EE
.PP
The
.PN tar
command can properly handle blocked archives.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
There is no way to ask for the
.IR n\^\^th
occurrence of a file.
.br
Tape errors are handled ungracefully.
.br
The 
.B u
key can be slow.
.br
The current limit on file name length is 100 characters.
.br
There is no way to follow symbolic links selectively.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Indicates bad key characters and read/write errors.
.br
Indicates if enough memory is not available to hold the link tables.
.SH FILES
/dev/rmt0l
.br
/dev/rmt0h
.br
/dev/rra1a
.br
/tmp/tar*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mdtar(1), mt(1), tar(5)
