.\" Last modified by MJT on 24-Apr-85  2225
.\"
.\"  WATCH OUT for tbl commands in text that appear at beginning
.\"   of lines -- they will be interpreted!
.\"
.TH tbl 1
.SH NAME
tbl \- format tables for nroff or troff
.SH SYNTAX
.B tbl
[ files ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B tbl
preprocessor is used for formatting tables for
.B nroff
or
.B troff.
The input files are copied to the standard output,
except for lines between .TS and .TE command lines,
which are assumed to describe tables
and are reformatted.
Details are given in the 
tbl(1)
reference manual.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
As an example, letting \\t represent a tab (which should be typed as a genuine
tab) the input
.IP ""
\&.TS
.EX
c s s
c c s
c c c
l n n.
Household Population
Town\\tHouseholds
\\tNumber\\tSize
Bedminster\\t789\\t3.26
Bernards Twp.\\t3087\\t3.74
Bernardsville\\t2018\\t3.30
Bound Brook\\t3425\\t3.04
Branchburg\\t1644\\t3.49
Bridgewater\\t7897\\t3.81
Far Hills\\t240\\t3.19
\&.TE
.EE
.LP
.EX
yields
.ne 10
.IP " "
.TS
c s s
c c s
c c c
l n n.
Household Population
Town	Households
	Number	Size
Bedminster	789	3.26
Bernards Twp.	3087	3.74
Bernardsville	2018	3.30
Bound Brook	3425	3.04
Branchburg	1644	3.49
Bridgewater	7897	3.81
Far Hills	240	3.19
.TE
.EE
.PP
If no arguments are given,
.B tbl
reads the standard input, so it may be used as a filter.  When 
.B tbl
is used with
.B eqn
or
.B neqn
the
.B tbl
command should be first, to minimize the volume of data passed through pipes.
.SH SEE ALSO
eqn(1), troff(1)
.br
"Tbl - A Program to Format Tables," 
.I ULTRIX-32 Supplementary Documents,
Vol. I:General User
