.TH telnet 1c
.SH NAME
telnet \- user interface to the TELNET protocol
.SH SYNTAX
telnet [ host [ port ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B telnet
interface
is used to communicate with another host using the TELNET protocol.  If 
.B telnet
is invoked without arguments, it enters command mode,
indicated by its prompt (\*(lqtelnet>\*(rq).
In this mode, it accepts and executes the commands listed below.
If it is invoked with arguments, it performs an
.B open
command (see below) with those arguments.
.PP
Once a connection has been opened,
.B telnet
enters input mode.
In this mode, text typed is sent to the remote host.  To issue
.B telnet
commands when in input mode, precede them with the
.B telnet
\*(lqescape character\*(rq (initially \*(lq^]\*(rq).
When in command mode, the normal terminal editing conventions are available.
.PP
The following commands are available.
Only enough of each command to uniquely identify it need be typed.
.PP
.TP
\fBopen\fP \fIhost\fP [ \fIport\fP ]
Open a connection to the named host.  If the no port number
is specified, 
.I telnet
will attempt to contact a TELNET server at the default port.
The host specification may be either a host name. For further information, see 
hosts(5).
or an Internet address specified in the \*(lqdot notation\*(rq.
.TP
.B close
Close a TELNET session and return to command mode.
.TP
.B quit
Close any open TELNET session and exit 
.B telnet.
.TP
.B z
Suspend
.IR telnet .
This command only works when the user is using the 
csh(1).
.TP
\fBescape\fP [ \fIescape-char\fP ]
Set the 
.B telnet
\*(lqescape character\*(rq.  Control characters may
be specified as \*(lq^\*(rq followed by a single
letter; e.g. \*(lqcontrol-X\*(rq is \*(lq^X\*(rq.
.TP
.B status
Show the current status of 
.B telnet.
This includes the peer one is connected to, as well
as the state of debugging.
.TP
.B options
Toggle viewing of TELNET options processing.  When
options viewing is enabled, all TELNET option negotiations
will be displayed.  Options sent by 
.B telnet
are displayed as \*(lqSENT\*(rq, while options
received from the TELNET server are displayed as
\*(lqRCVD\*(rq.
.TP
.B crmod
Toggle carriage return mode.  When this mode is enabled
any carriage return characters received from the remote
host will be mapped into a carriage return and a line
feed.  This mode does not affect those characters typed
by the user, only those received.  This mode is not very
useful, but is required for some hosts that like to ask
the user to do local echoing.
.TP
\fB?\fP [ \fIcommand\fP ]
Get help.  With no arguments,
.B telnet
prints a help summary.
If a command is specified, 
.B telnet
will print the help information available about the command only.
