.TH tftp 1c
.SH NAME
tftp \- trivial file transfer program
.SH SYNTAX
.B tftp
[ \fIhost\fR ] [ \fIport\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN tftp
command
provides the user interface to the 
Internet standard Trivial File Transfer Protocol.
The program allows a user to transfer files to and from a
remote network site.
.PP
.PP
The client
.I host
with which 
.PN tftp
is to communicate may be specified on the command line.
If this is done,
.PN tftp
will assume the given host name for future transactions.
If a
.I port
is specified,
.PN tftp
will use that port number instead of the standard 
.PN tftp 
service port.
When invoked,
.PN tftp
enters its command interpreter and awaits instructions
from the user, displaying
the prompt \*(lqtftp>\*(rq.
The following commands are recognized
by
.PN tftp :
.TP
.B ?
Display a help message giving a brief summary of the commands.
.TP
.B connect
Set the host to be used implicitly for all file transfers.
.TP
\fBget\fP \fIremote-file\fP [ \fIlocal-file\fP ]
Retrieve the 
.I remote-file
and store it on the local machine.  If the local
file name is not specified, it is given the same
name it has on the remote machine.
The current setting for 
.IR mode
is used while transferring the file.
.TP
.B mode
Set the file transfer 
.I type
to network ASCII or binary.  The default type is network ASCII.
.TP
\fBput\fP \fIlocal-file\fP [ \fIremote-file\fP ]
Store a local file on the remote machine.  If 
.I remote-file
is left unspecified, the local file name is used
in naming the remote file.  File transfer uses the
current setting for
.IR mode.
.TP
.B quit
Exit the 
.PN tftp 
program.
.TP
.B rexmt
Set the retransmit timer.
.TP
.B status
Show what
.PN tftp
believes to be the current connection status.
.TP
.B timeout
Set the transaction timeout.
.TP
.B trace
Set the packet trace flag.
.TP
.B verbose
Set the verbose mode flag.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Since the TFTP protocol does not support any authentication,
any files must be world read (writeable) on the remote system.
