.TH tp 1 
.SH NAME
tp \- manipulate tape archive
.SH SYNTAX
.B tp
[ \fIkey\fR ] [ \fIname\fR... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN tp
command saves and restores files
to and from an archive on DECtape or magnetic tape.
The default archive is
.PN tapx ,
but any file or device may be requested through
the use of options.
Its actions are controlled by the
.I key 
argument.  The key is a string of characters containing at
most one function letter and possibly one or more function
modifiers.  Other arguments to the command are file or
directory names specifying which files are to be dumped,
restored, or listed.  In all cases appearance of a directory 
name refers to the files and (recursively) subdirectories of that
directory.  
.PP
.NT
The DECtape device is not supported in ULTRIX-32.
.NE
.PP
The function portion of the key is specified by one of the 
following letters:
.TP 8
.B d
Deletes the named files from the tape.  At least one
.I name
argument must be given.  This function is not permitted
on magnetic tapes.
.TP 8
.B  r
The named files
are written
on the tape.
If files with the same names
already exist, they are replaced.
``Same'' is determined by string comparison, so
.PN ./abc
is not the same as 
.PN /usr/dmr/abc
even
if 
.PN /usr/dmr 
is the current directory.
If no 
.I name
argument is given, `\fB.\fR' is the default.
.TP 8
.B t
Lists the names of the specified files.  If no
.I name
argument is given, the entire contents of the tape are
listed.
.TP 8
.B  u
Updates the tape.
.B u
is like
.B r,
but a file is replaced only if its
modification date is later than the date stored on the tape.
.B u
is the default function key if none is given.
.TP 8
.B  x
Extracts the named files from the tape to the file system.
The owner and mode are restored.
If no 
.I name
argument is given, the entire contents of the
tape are extracted.
.PP
You can use one or more of the following options in addition
to the letter that selects the function desired.
.TP 8 
.B  c
A fresh dump is to be created.  The tape directory
is cleared before beginning.
This option is usable only with
the
.B r
and
.B u
function keys.
This option is assumed with magnetic tape since
it is impossible to selectively overwrite
magnetic tape.
.TP 8
.B f
Use the next argument as the name of the archive.  Any
special file can be used as the next argument.  When
used with the
.B r
function key, the
.B c
option is implied.  That is, the directory is cleared
before beginning.
.TP 8 

This option cannot be used with the
.B d
or
.B u
function keys.
.TP 8 
.B  i
Errors reading and writing the
tape are noted, but no action is taken.
Normally, errors cause a return to the command level.
.TP 8
.B m
Specifies magnetic tape as opposed to DECtape.  The
default tape is
.PN rmt0h ,
but other devices may be requested with the
.B f
option.
.TP 8

When used with the
.B r
function key, the
.B c 
option is implied.  That is, the directory
is cleared before beginning.
.TP 8

This option cannot be used with the
.B d
or
.B u
function keys.
.TP 8
.B v
Normally,
.PN tp
does its work silently.  This option causes it
to display the name of each file it treats, preceded
by the function letter.  With the
.B t
function,
.B v
gives more information about the entries than just
the name.
.TP 8 
.B  w
Causes
.I tp
to pause before transferring each file, type
the indicative letter and the file name (as with
.BR v )
and await the user's response.
.TP

Response
.B y
means `yes', so the file is transferred.
Null response
means `no', and the file 
is not transferred
.TP

Response
.B x
means ``exit'';
the
.I tp
command terminates immediately.
With the
.B x
function key,
files previously asked about
have been extracted already.
With the
.BR r , 
.BR u ,
and
.B d
function keys,
no change has been made to the tape.
.PP
.SH RESTRICTIONS
A single file with several links to it is treated like several files.
.PP
Binary-coded control information makes
magnetic tapes written by
.PN tp
difficult to carry to other machines.
The
.MS tar 1
command
avoids this problem.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
There are several.  The least obvious one is
`Phase error', which means the file changed after it was selected for
dumping but before it was dumped.
.SH FILES
.TP
.PN /dev/tap?
DECtape archive
.TP
\fI/dev/rmt?h\fR or \fI/dev/nmt?h\fR
Magnetic tape archive
.SH SEE ALSO
ar(1), tar(1)
