.\" Last modified by Michaud on Jan 8, l987
.\" Took sact.1 out of See Also section for V2.0
.\" G. Depp will do a BAR on sact.1, it's in the code but
.\" sccs does not recognize it.
.\" Last modified by MJT on 27-Aug-85  0001
.\"  Repaired beginning matter to work right in whatis database
.TH unget 1
.SH NAME
unget \- undo a previous get of an SCCS file
.SH SYNTAX
.B unget
.RB [ \-r \s-1SID\s+1]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.I files\^
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN unget 
command undoes the effect of a
.PN "get \-e"
done prior to creating the intended new delta.
If a directory is named,
.PN unget
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file, except that
non-\s-1SCCS\s+1
files and unreadable files are ignored.
If 
.B \-
is given as a name, the standard input is read, with each line
being taken as the name of an
.SM SCCS
file to be processed.
.P
Keyletter arguments apply independently to each
named file.
.RS 5
.TP 12
.BI \-r \s-1SID\s+1\^
Uniquely identifies which delta is no longer intended.
This would have been specified by
.PN get
as the new delta.
The use of this keyletter is necessary only if two or
more outstanding
.PN gets
for editing on the same
.SM SCCS
file were done by the same person (login name).
A diagnostic results if the specified
.I \s-1SID\s+1\^
is ambiguous, or if it is necessary and omitted
on the command line.
.TP 12
.B \-s
Suppresses the printout, on the standard output,
of the intended delta's
.IR \s-1SID\s+1 .
.TP 12
.B \-n
Causes the retention of the gotten file,
which would usually be removed from
the current directory.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
See
.PN sccshelp(1)
for explanations.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
delta(1), get(1), sccs(1)
.br
System Management Guide
