.TH uux 1c
.SH NAME
uux \- unix to unix command execution
.SH SYNTAX
.B uux
[
.B -
]
command-string
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B uux
command gathers 0 or more files from various systems,
executes a command on a specified system
and sends standard output to a file on a specified
system.
.PP
The command-string is made up of one or more arguments that look
like a shell command line,
except that the command and file names
may be prefixed by system-name!.
A null system-name is interpreted as the local system.
.PP
File names may be
a full pathname,
a pathname preceded by
.IR ~xxx,
where
.I xxx
is a userid on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory, or
anything else prefixed by the current directory.
.PP
For example, the command
.EX
uux "!diff usg!/usr/dan/f1 pwba!/a4/dan/f1 > !fi.diff"
.EE
.PP
gets the f1 files from the usg and pwba machines,
executes a
.B diff
command
and puts the results in f1.diff in the local directory.
.PP
Any special shell characters such as <>;| should be quoted either
by quoting the entire command-string, or quoting the special
characters as individual arguments.
.PP
The
.B uux
command attempts to get all files to the execution system.  
If both the file and command are located on different remote sites, 
the file is first brought to the local system and 
is then transferred to the execution system.
.PP
For files that are used as arguments to a command and not be processed 
by \fBuux\fP at the local system,
the file name must be escaped by using parentheses.
For example, the command
.EX
uux a!uucp b!/usr/file \(c!/usr/file\)
.EE
.PP
sends a \fBuucp\fP command to system "a". 
The /usr/file is transferred from system "b" to the local system and
then shipped along to system "a".
When /usr/file arrives at system "a" the \fBuucp\fP command 
executes and sends /usr/file to system "c".
.PP
The
.B uux
command
notifies you if the requested command on the remote system was
disallowed.  
The response comes by remote mail from the remote machine.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP - 5
The standard input to \fIuux\fP is made the standard input ot the 
\fIcommand-string\fP
.IP -\fBn\fP 5
Send no notification to user.
.SH WARNING
An installation may, and for security reasons
generally will, limit the list of
commands executable on behalf of an incoming request from
.B uux.
Typically, a restricted site will permit little other than
the receipt of mail via 
.B uux.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Only the first command of a shell pipeline may
have a system-name!.
All other commands are executed on the system of the first
command.
.br
The use of the shell metacharacter
.B *
will probably not do what you want it to do.
.br
The shell tokens << and >> are not implemented.
.br
There is no notification of denial of execution
on the remote machine.
.br 
Only commands listed in /usr/lib/uucp/L.cmds on the remote
system will be executed at the remote system.
.SH FILES
.DT
/usr/spool/uucp	spool directory
.br
/usr/lib/uucp/*	other data and programs
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1c)
.br
"Uucp Implementation Description"
.I ULTRIX-32 Supplementary Documents
Vol. III:Programmer
