.\" Last modified by MJT on 27-Aug-85  0001
.\"  Repaired beginning matter to work right in whatis database
.nr f 0
.bd S B 3
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fR\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de SF
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fR]
.if n .ul 0
..
.de AR
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\\fR
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\fI\\$2\fR
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.ds S)  \s-1SCCS\s0
.ds I)  \fI\s-1SID\s0\fR
.TH val 1
.SH NAME
val \- validate SCCS file
.SH SYNTAX  
\fBval \-\fR
.br
.B val
.SF s
.SP r \s-1SID\s0 ]
.SP m name ]
.SP y type ]
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B val
command determines if the specified
.I file\^
is an \*(S) file meeting the characteristics specified by the optional
argument list.
Arguments to
.B val
may appear in any order.
The arguments consist of keyletter arguments that begin with a "-" and
named files.
.PP
The
.B val
command
has a special argument, "-," which causes reading of the standard input
until an end-of-file condition is detected.
Each line read is independently processed, as if it were 
a command line argument
list.
.PP
The
.B val
command
generates diagnostic messages on the standard output for each command line
and file processed and also returns a single 8\fB-\fRbit code upon exit as
described below.
.PP
The effects of any keyletter argument apply independently to each named file
on the command line.    
The keyletter arguments are defined as follows:
.AR s The
presence of this argument silences the diagnostic message normally
generated on the standard output for any error that is detected while processing each named file on
a given command line.
.A2 r \s-1SID\s0 The
argument value
\*(I)
(\*(S) identification string) is an \*(S) delta number.
A check is made to determine if the
\*(I)
is ambiguous, for example, 
.B \*-r\c
1 is ambiguous because it physically does 
not exist but implies 1.1, 1.2,
and so forth, which may exist) or invalid, for example, 
.B \*-r\c
1.0 or
.B \*-r\c
1.1.0 are invalid because neither case can exist as a valid delta number).
If the
\*(I)
is valid and not ambiguous, a check is made
to determine if it actually exists.
.A2 m name The
argument value
.I name\^
is compared with the \*(S) %\&M% keyword in
.I file.
.A2 y type The
argument value
.I type\^
is compared with the \*(S) %\&Y% keyword in
.I file.
.RE
.PP
The 8\fB-\fRbit code returned by
.B val
is a disjunction of the possible errors.  It can be interpreted as
a bit string where set bits are interpreted (from left to right) 
as: 
.nf
.PP
.RS
bit 0 = missing file argument
bit 1 = unknown or duplicate keyletter argument
bit 2 = corrupted \*(S) file
bit 3 = can't open file or file not \*(S)
bit 4 = \*(I) is invalid or ambiguous
bit 5 = \*(I) does not exist
bit 6 = %\&Y%, \fB\-y\fR mismatch
bit 7 = %\&M%, \fB\-m\fR mismatch
.RE
.fi
.PP
Note that
.B val
can process two or more files on a given command line and can
process multiple command lines when reading the standard input.
In these cases, an aggregate code is returned \- a logical OR of the
codes generated for each command line and file processed.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The
.B val
command can process up to 50 files on a single command line.
Any number above 50 produces a core dump.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use sccshelp(1) for explanations.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
admin(1), delta(1), get(1), prs(1), sccs(1)
.br
System Management Guide
