.\" Last modified by MJT on 17-May-85  1200
.\"
.TH vi 1
.SH NAME
vi \- screen oriented (visual) display editor based on ex
.SH SYNTAX 
.B vi
[
.B \-t
tag
] [
.B \-r
] [
\fB+\fR\fIcommand\fR
] [
.B \-l
] [
\fB\-w\fIn\fR
]
name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN vi
command (visual) is a display oriented text editor based on
ex(1).
The
.PN ex
command and the
.PN vi
command
run the same code.  It is possible to get to
the command mode of
.PN ex
from within
.PN vi
and vice-versa.
.PP
The
.I "Vi Beginners Reference"
card, the
.I "ULTRIX-32 Quick Reference", 
Details of Special Commands section,
and the
.I "Introduction to Display Editing with Vi"
provide full details on using
.PN vi.
.SH RESTRICTIONS 
Software tabs using \fB^T\fR work only immediately after the
.I autoindent.
.PP
Left and right shifts on intelligent terminals don't make use of
insert and delete character operations in the terminal.
.PP
The
.I wrapmargin
option can be fooled since it
looks at output columns when blanks are typed.
If a long word passes through the margin and onto
the next line without a 
break, then the line won't be broken.
.PP
Insert/delete within a line can be slow
if tabs are present on intelligent
terminals, since the terminals need help in doing this correctly.
.PP
Saving text on deletes in the named buffers is somewhat inefficient.
.PP
The
.I source
command does not work when executed as \fB:source\fR;
there is no way to use the \fB:append\fR, \fB:change\fR,
and \fB:insert\fR commands, since it is not possible to give
more than one line of input to a \fB:\fR escape.  To use these
on a \fB:global\fR you must \fBQ\fR to \fIex\fR command mode,
execute them, and then reenter the screen editor with
.PN vi
or
.PN open.
.SH SEE ALSO
edit(1), ex(1)
.br
``An Introduction to Display Editing with Vi'',
.I ULTRIX-32 Supplementary Documents
Vol. I:General User
