.TH ypmatch 1yp
./" Last edited by Jeff J. 6/24/86
.SH NAME
ypmatch - print the value of one or more keys from a yp map
.SH SYNTAX
.B ypmatch 
.B [ \-d 
\fIdomain\fR ]
.B [ \-k ]
.B [ \-t ]
.I key 
\&.\|.\|.
.I mname 
.br
.B ypmatch 
.B \-x
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B ypmatch 
command prints the values associated with one or more keys from the 
yellow pages (YP) map (database) specified by a
.I mname,
which may be either a
.I mapname
or a map 
.I nickname.
.LP
Multiple keys can be specified.
After the key values and the map name have been specified, 
.I ypmatch 
searches the map for all of the specified keys.
The specified keys must be exact values in terms of capitalization
and length.
The
.B ypmatch 
command
does not have a pattern matching capability.
If
.B ypmatch
cannot match a key, it produces a diagnostic message.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-d\fR
Display the key values for the specified domain.
.IP \fB\-k\fR
Before printing the value of a key, print the key itself, followed by a
colon (':').  This is useful if the keys are not duplicated in the returned
values, or if the number of specified keys is so large that the output is
confusing.
.IP \fB\-t\fR
Inhibit translation of nickname to mapname.
For example,
.I "ypmatch \-t zippy passwd "
fails because there is no map named
.I passwd,
while
.I ypmatch zippy passwd 
succeeds because
.I ypmatch 
translates it to
.I ypmatch zippy passwd.byname.
.IP \fB\-x\fR
Display the map nickname table.
This option tells
.I ypmatch 
to list the nicknames (\fImnames\fR\|)
with their associated
.I mapnames.
.SH SEE ALSO
ypfiles(5yp), ypcat(1yp)
