.TH yppasswd 1yp
./" Last edited by Jeff J. 6/24/86
.SH NAME
yppasswd \- change login password in yellow pages map.
.SH SYNTAX
.B yppasswd
\ [ name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "yppasswd command"  ""  "\fLyppasswd\fP \(em change login password in yellow pages"
.IX  "change login password in yellow pages"  ""  "change login password in yellow pages \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.IX  "yellow pages"  "change login password in"  ""  "change login password in \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.IX  "password"  "change in yellow pages"  ""  "change in yellow pages \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.IX  "login password"  "change in yellow pages"  ""  "change in yellow pages \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
The
.PN yppasswd
command changes or installs a password associated with the user
specified by
.I name
in the yellow pages map.  By default, the
.I name
is the user's name.
The yellow pages map password may be different
from the one stored in the 
passwd(5yp)
file.
.LP
When invoked, the
.PN yppasswd
command prompts for the old yellow pages map password and then for the
new one.  The user must supply both.  To minimize errors, the new
password must be typed twice.
.LP
The conventions for entering a password are:
.IP \(bu
The password can be a minimum of four characters provided 
that at least one character is non-alphanumeric.
.IP \(bu
The password is a combination of at least six alphanumeric 
characters.
.PP
Only the owner or the super-user can change a password.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The update protocol passes all the information to the server in
one rpc call.  If an old password is
typed incorrectly, the user will not be notified until
after entering the new password.
The
.PN passwd 
command will not change your password if your login entry is
served yp the the yellow pages (YP) since the /etc/passwd 
file is referenced and not the yp map.  
.SH SEE ALSO
passwd(1), passwd(5yp), ypfiles(5yp), yppasswdd(8yp)
