.TH ccr 8
.SH NAME
/etc/ccr \- remote console carrier requester
.SH SYNTAX
.B ccr 
[
.I options
]
.I node
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN ccr
command establishes a logical connection between
your ULTRIX system and the console carrier server on a
remote system.
The
.I node 
is the name or address of the target node.  A node name
consists of from one to six alphanumeric characters.
For single networks, a node address consists of a 
decimal integer (1-1023).  For multiple networks, a
node address consist of two decimal integers (n.n), 
where the first indicates the network number (1-63), 
and the second indicates the node address (1-1023).
The
.PN ccr 
is the console carrier requester, which 
sets up a logical connection between your 
ULTRIX node and the console carrier server on a remote node.
The
.PN ccr 
enables your terminal to act as the console for a
remote unattended system.  For example, your terminal can act as
the console for a Digital Ethernet Communications Server (DECSA)
and its resident software.
.PP
You can use 
.PN ccr
to force a crash if a server node becomes unresponsive.  To
determine how to force a crash, see the documentation for 
the respective server product. 
.PP
When you are attempting to use
.PN ccr, 
the remote console carrier server can be in one of the following states:
.PP
.RS 5
Loaded and unreserved
.PP
Loaded and reserved by another user
.PP
Not loaded
.RE
.PP
If the console carrier  server  is  loaded  and  unreserved, 
.PN ccr
reserves it, and the following message is displayed at your terminal:
.PP
ccr: Remote console reserved
.PP
If the console carrier server is loaded and  reserved by another  
user, the following diagnostic message is displayed at your terminal:
.PP
ccr: Remote console already in use
.PP
If the console carrier server is not loaded, 
.PN ccr
loads the  server.  In order to load the server, your ULTRIX node must 
have the console carrier server image file, plutocc.sys,
and its loader file, plutowl.sys, present in the directory,
/usr/lib/dnet.  Once the server is loaded, 
.PN ccr 
attempts to reserve the console and to proceed as previously described.
.PP
The requirements for using 
.PN ccr 
are as follows:
.PP
.RS 5
The host node (that is, your local ULTRIX node) and
the remote node must be on the same Ethernet.
.PP
The console carrier server image (plutocc.sys) and its loader file 
(plutowl.sys) must be located 
in /usr/lib/dnet on your ULTRIX node.  
.RE
.PP
The following special characters are used by 
.PN ccr:
.PP
.br
.TP 15
<CTRL/B>
Operates as a 
.B break  
command to get the attention of the console on-line debugging tool 
.B (odt). 
.br
.TP 15
<CTRL/D>
Exits from console carrier mode and terminates 
.PN ccr.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B \-c  
Uses the specified service and device number (UBA-n or
QNA-n) as the circuit to the target node.
.TP 5
.B \-h
Uses the specified address (next argument) as the Ethernet
address of the target node.
.TP 5
.B \-n   
Uses the next argument as the target node ID.
.TP 5
.B \-p
Uses the specified service and password (next arguments)
in accessing the target node.
.SH EXAMPLE
In the following sample session, you invoke 
.PN ccr 
to use the on-line debugging tool, 
.B odt 
to examine locations in memory of node Dallas.  After invoking 
.PN ccr, 
You type <CTRL/B> to invoke 
.B odt.  
The system then displays the current program counter and the 
at sign prompt, (@).
At this point, you
can enter commands as if you were physically located at the console of 
node Dallas.
.PN ccr 
commands are transmitted by the requester to the server, and the
appropriate responses are transmitted by the server to the
requester and displayed on your terminal.
.PP
To examine a register, enter the dollar sign ($) followed by 
the register number and a slash (/).
To examine a location, enter the address of 
the location  and a slash.  The system then displays the 
contents on the same line. Enter <LF> to view the next register or 
location, or enter <RET> to return to the @ prompt. When you want to 
exit 
.B odt, 
enter 
.B p 
(proceed). You must then issue a <CTRL/D> to return to 
the ULTRIX system prompt.
.PP
# /etc/ccr dallas <RET>
.br
ccr: Remote console reserved
.br
<CTRL/B>
.br
002160
.br
@$0/000000 <LF>
.br
R1/005621 <LF>
.br
R2/112000 <LF>
.br
R3/000000 <LF>
.br
R4/000001 <LF>
.br
R5/000000 <RET>
.br
@100/016122 <LF>
.br
000102/000340 <LF>
.br
000104/001614 <LF>
.br
000106/000341 <RET>
.br
@p <RET>
.br
<CTRL/D> 
.br
ccr: Remote console released
.br
#
.EE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
You must have superuser privileges to run 
.PN ccr.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN ccr
command can return the following diagnostic messages:
.PP
ccr: Remote console reserved
.PP
.RS 5
.B 
ccr 
has successfully connected to the remote console server and your 
terminal is now capable of acting as a console for the remote node.
.RE
.PP
ccr: Remote console released
.PP
.RS 5
Your connection with the remote console server has been terminated and 
you are no longer in console carrier mode.
.RE
.PP
ccr: Remote console already in use
.PP
.RS 5
The remote console server that you are attempting to connect to is 
already reserved by another user.
.RE
.PP
ccr: Permission denied 
.PP
.RS 5
You do not have the necessary privileges to run 
.PN ccr.  
(You must be a superuser.)
.RE
.PP
ccr: Hardware address required
.PP
.RS 5
.PN ccr 
is unable to locate the hardware address of the remote node to which 
you are attempting to connect.  A remote node's hardware addres must 
be defined either in the 
.PN ccr 
command line, or in its nodes database entry.  (Nodes database entries 
are defined with the 
.PN addnode 
command.)
.RE
.PP
ccr: No node entry in database
.PP
.RS 5
.PN ccr 
does not recognize the remote node to which you are attempting to 
connect, since the 
.I node-id 
that you specified is not defined in the nodes database.
(Nodes database entries are defined with the 
.PN addnode 
command.)
.RE
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/dnet/plutocc.sys (console carrier server image)
.br
/usr/lib/dnet/plutowl.sys (console carrier server loader)
.SH SEE ALSO
addnode(8), getnode(8), load(8), remnode(8), trigger(8) 
.br
System Management Guide
