.TH dskx 8 
.SH NAME
dskx \- generic disk exerciser
.SH SYNTAX
.B /usr/field/dskx
[
.I options
.B ] 
.BI \-r dev
.br
.B /usr/field/dskx
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-p devpart
.br
.B /usr/field/dskx [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-c dev
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN dskx 
exerciser tests the disk drives on your system.
The exerciser has three main options:
.IP \(bu 0.3i
Read only 
.IP \(bu 0.3i
Write/read/validate data on a partition 
.IP \(bu 0.3i
Write/read/validate data of
a disk. 
.PP
The exerciser does ramdom seeks/reads of ramdom block
sizes and random seeks/writes/reads/validation of random data
patterns of random block sizes. The exerciser will run 
until 
.CT C
or \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR is sent to the
process. 
.PP
A logfile is made in /usr/field for you to examine 
and then remove. If there are errors in the logfile, make sure
you check the /usr/adm/syserr/syserr.<hostname> file, 
because that is where the
driver and kernel error messages are saved.
.PP
CAUTION: Both the \fB\-c\fR and \fB\-p\fR options of the
.PN dskx
exerciser destroy data on the disk.  Use extreme caution before
using them on any non-scratch media.  If you are unsure of
what data is on the disk, contact your system manager before
running
.PN dskx
with either of these options.
.SH ARGUMENTS
One of the following function flags and arguments must be specified.
.IP \fB\-r\fIdev\fR 1i
Random read-only test, all partitions except the \fBc\fR
partition.  The \fIdev\fR argument can be a raw or buffered
device name and number.  For example, rhp0, ra3, hk1.
.IP \fB\-p\fIdevpart\fR 1i
Write, read, and validate data from the device name and
number specified by \fIdev\fR and the partition specified
by \fIpart\fR.  The \fIdev\fR argument can be a raw or
buffered device name and number.  For example, rhp0, ra3, hk1.
The \fIpart\fR argument can be any valid partition from \fBa\fR
\- \fBh\fR.
.IP "" 1i
CAUTION:  Be careful when exercising partitions that overlap other
partitions, as you may inadvertently destroy data on a
partition that you do not want to test.  You can use the
\fB\-q\fR option of the
.MS chpt 8
command to see what partitions overlap on the device on your
system.
.IP \fB\-c\fIdev\fR 1i
Write, read, and validate data from all partitions except
the \fBc\fR partition on the device specified by
\fIdev\fR.  The \fIdev\fR argument can be a raw or buffered
device name and number.  For example, rhp0, ra3, hk1.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The 
.PN dskx
options are:
.IP \fB\-h\fR 1i
Print help message for the
.PN dskx 
command
.IP \fB\-o\fIfile\fR 1i
Save output diagnostics in \fIfile\fR
.IP \fB\-t\fIn\fR 1i
Run time in minutes (\fIn\fR).  The
default is to run until the process receives
a
.CT C
or \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.IP \fB\-d\fIm\fR
Print statistics every \fIm\fR minutes
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example exercises RA disk unit 1,
for 60 minutes in the background.
.EX
% /usr/field/dskx -t60 -cra1 &
.EE
The following example exercises raw HP disk unit 0,
partition d, until 
.CT C
or
\fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.EX
% /usr/field/dskx -prhp0d
.EE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
System Management Guide
