.TH eli 8
.SH NAME
eli \- error logger initializer
.SH SYNTAX
.B eli [ 
.I options\fB ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B eli 
command initializes error logging.  This command enables error logging
of hardware and system-related error packets, or error messages, from
the kernel errorlog buffer.  It can also disable error logging,
reconfigure error logging parameters, or initialize the kernel errorlog
buffer.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Disables error logging.
.TP
.B \-e
Enables error logging in multiuser mode.
.TP
.B \-f
Forces the subsequent option; the system will not prompt.  This is
the only 
.B eli 
command option you can use with another option.
.TP
.B \-h
Prints information about the 
.B eli 
command.
.TP
.B \-i
Initializes the kernel errorlog buffer.  The previous contents of the
errorlog buffer are lost.
.TP
.B \-l
Logs a one-line status message to the kernel errorlog buffer.
.TP
.B \-n
Disables error logging to disk.  Messages appear only at the console.
To re-enable logging to disk, use the 
.B \-e 
option. This option can only be used for local error logging.
.TP
.B \-q
Suppresses the missed error message from appearing on the console. 
.TP
.B \-r
Reconfigures error logging.  Use this option after changing the
/etc/elcsd.conf
file.
.TP
.B \-s
Enables error logging in single-user mode.
.TP
.B \-w
Enables the missed error message to appear on the console. 
.SH EXAMPLES
This example logs a one-line message into the errorlog file.
.EX
eli -f -l "This is a test message"
.EE
This example logs a message, up to and including the first newline,
from file 'myfile'.
.EX
eli -f -l < myfile > /dev/null
.EE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
You must have superuser privileges to use the 
.B eli 
command.
.sp
Only the \fB\-f\fR option can be used with other eli options.
You must use the syntax shown in the examples above.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS 
.I eli: Request Aborted. 
The requested action was aborted; the reason for the aborted command is
included with the output. 
.SH FILES
/etc/elcsd.conf	
.SH "SEE ALSO"
elcsd.conf(5), elcsd(8), uerf(8)
.br
System Managerment Guide
