.TH fsck 8
.SH NAME
fsck \- file system consistency check and interactive repair utility.
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/fsck
[ \-p|\-P ]
[
filesystem ...
]
.br
.B /etc/fsck
[
.B \-b
block#
] [
.B \-y
] [
.B \-n
] [
filesystem 
] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN fsck
command checks and corrects either a standard set of filesystems or the
specified file systems for consistency.  This command is normally used
in the script /etc/rc during automatic reboot.
In this case,
.PN fsck
reads the /etc/fstab 
table to determine which file systems to check.
It uses the 
.PN fstab 
information to inspect groups of disks in parallel, taking
advantage of i/o overlap to check the file systems
as quickly as possible.
.PP
The 
.PN fsck
command makes a number of passes to check the file systems
for consistency.
Usually, the root file system is checked on pass 1, other
root (partition a) file systems on pass 2, other
small file systems on separate passes (for example, the d file systems
on pass 3 and the e file systems on pass 4), and the large 
user file systems on the final pass.
A pass number of 0 in /etc/fstab 
causes a disk to not be checked.  Similarly,
partitions which are not shown to be mounted rw or ro are not checked.
.PP
The
.B \-p
option should be used to check filesystems since now with
the generic file system interface,
gfsi(5),
.PN fsck
realizes when a file system
is unmounted cleanly and does not do the check.
File systems are unmounted cleanly only when an error-free shutdown 
has been performed.
If the
.B \-P
option is used, the parallel consistency checks
are performed like the \-p
option regardless of how the file system was unmounted,
cleanly or otherwise.
.PP
The system ensures that only a restricted class of filesystem
inconsistencies can occur unless hardware or software failures
intervene.
The inconsistencies are limited to:
.IP
Unreferenced inodes
.ns
.IP
Link counts in inodes are too large
.ns
.IP
Missing blocks in the free list
.ns
.IP
Blocks in the free list are also in files
.ns
.IP
Counts in the super-block are wrong
.PP
These are the only inconsistencies that 
.PN fsck
with either the
.B \-p
or 
.B \-P
option will correct.
If it encounters other inconsistencies, it exits
with an abnormal return status and an automatic reboot will then fail.
For each corrected inconsistency one or more lines will be printed
identifying the file system on which the correction will take place,
and the nature of the correction.  
If any inconsistencies occur, the message "**** FILE SYSTEM MODIFIED,
VERIFYING" is printed and 
.PN fsck
runs again to verify that the appropriate
changes were made.
After successfully correcting a file
system,
.B fsck
will print the number of files on that file system and the number of
used and free blocks.
Also, a clean byte is set for the checked file system, except the
root, indicating that the file system is clean.
.PP
Without the
.B \-p
or 
.B \-P
options,
.B fsck
audits and interactively repairs inconsistent conditions for 
file systems. 
If the file system is inconsistent the operator is prompted
for concurrence before each correction is attempted.
It should be noted that a number of the corrective actions which are not
fixable using the
.B \-p
or 
.B \-P
options will result in some loss of data.
The amount and severity of data lost may be determined from
the diagnostic output.
The default action for each consistency correction
is to wait for the operator to respond \fByes\fP or \fBno\fP.
If the operator does not have write permission 
.B fsck
will default to a 
.BR "\-n " action.
.PP
If no filesystems are given to 
.B fsck
then a default list of file systems is read from
the file
/etc/fstab.
The
.B fsck
command
will only check file systems of type
.I ufs.
.PP
.ne 10
Inconsistencies checked are as follows:
.TP 6
1.  
Blocks claimed by more than one inode or the free list.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
2.
Blocks claimed by an inode or the free list outside the range of
the file system.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
3.
Incorrect link counts.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
4.
Size checks:
.br
.ns
.IP "" 12
Directory size not of proper format.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
5.
Bad inode format.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
6.
Blocks not accounted for.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
7.
Directory checks:
.br
.br
.ns
.IP "" 12
File pointing to unallocated inode.
.br
Inode number out of range.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
8.
Super Block checks:
.br
.br
.ns
.IP "" 12
More blocks for inodes than there are in the file system.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
9.
Bad free block list format.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
10.
Total free block and/or free inode count incorrect.
.PP
Allocated but unreferenced files and directories are
reconnected by
placing them in the 
.B lost+found
directory with the operator's concurrence.
The name assigned is the inode number. The only restriction
is that the directory 
.B lost+found
must preexist
in the root of the filesystem being checked and
must have empty slots in which entries can be made.
This is accomplished by making 
.BR lost+found ,
copying a number of files to the directory, and then removing them
before
.B fsck
is executed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
.B \-b
Use the block specified immediately after the flag as
the super block for the file system.  Block 32 is always
an alternate super block.
.TP 6
.B  \-y
Assume a yes response to all questions asked by 
.B fsck;
this should be used with great caution as this is a free license
to continue after essentially unlimited trouble has been encountered.
.TP 6
.B  \-n
Assume a no response to all questions asked by 
.B fsck;
do not open the file system for writing.
.TP 6
.B \-p
Check a file system that was unmounted cleanly for consistency.
.TP 6
.B \-P
Check a file system for consistency regardless of how it was unmounted.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Inode numbers for
.BR . ""
and
.BR .. ""
in each directory should be checked for validity.
The
.B fsck
command
will not allow checking a raw device if the block device is mounted.
.SH FILES
.br
.ns
.TP 21
/etc/fstab
contains default list of file systems to check.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getmnt(2), fstab(5), ufs(5), crash(8v), mkfs(8), mklost+found(8),
mount(8), newfs(8), reboot(8)
