.TH fsx 8 
.SH NAME
fsx \- file system exerciser
.SH SYNTAX
.B /usr/field/fsx
[
.B \-h
] [
.BI \-o file
.B ] [
.BI \-t n
.B ] [
.BI \-f path
.B ] [
.BI \-p m
.B ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN fsx 
exerciser exercises a file system by spawning up to
250 (the default is 20) processes that create, open, write, close,
open, read, validate, close, and unlink a test file.  These test
files are created in /usr/field 
(the default) unless the \fB\-f\fIpath\fR
option is used. The exerciser will run 
until 
.CT C
or \fBkill -15\fI pid\fR is sent to the
process. 
.PP
A logfile is made in /usr/field 
for you to examine 
and then remove. If there are errors in the logfile, make
sure you check the /usr/adm/syserr/syserr.<hostname> 
file, because that is
where the driver and kernel error messages are saved.
.SH OPTIONS
The 
.PN fsx
options are:
.IP \fB\-h\fR
Print the help messages for the 
.PN fsx 
command.
.IP \fB\-o\fIfile\fR
Save the output diagnostics in \fIfile\fR.
.IP \fB\-t\fIn\fR
Run time in minutes (\fIn\fR).  The default is to run
until
the process receives a
.CT C
or a \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.IP \fB\-p\fIm\fR
Number (\fIm\fR) of 
.PN fsx 
processes to spawn. 
The maximum is 250; the default is 20.
.IP \fB\-f\fIpath\fR
Path name of directory on file system 
you wish to test.
For example, /mnt or /usr.  
The default is /usr/field.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example runs 10
.PN fsx
processes on /mnt
until the process receives a
.CT C
or \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.EX
% /usr/field/fsx -p10 -f/mnt
.EE
The following example runs 20
.PN fsx
processes on /usr/field
for 120 minutes in the background.
.EX
% /usr/field/fsx -t120 &
.EE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
System Management Guide
