.\"      Last edited by Carolyn Belman, August 28, 1985.
.TH getty 8 
.SH NAME
getty  \- set terminal mode
.SH SYNTAX
\fB/etc/getty [ \fItype\fB ] [ \fItty\fB ]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN getty
routine is one of several (
.PN init
,
.PN getty
,
.PN login
,
.PN shell
) by which users gain access to the ULTRIX
system from a terminal.
.PN getty
initializes a terminal 
line, reads a login name, and invokes
login(1).
While reading the name,
.PN getty
tries to adapt the system to the speed and type of terminal
on the line specified by the
.I tty
argument.
.PP
The init(8) command typically invokes
.PN getty ,
as directed by the
.I command
field in the /etc/ttys
file.
.PP
.PN getty
first tries to initialize the line.  It examines
/etc/ttys
and sets up the line for local or remote connections, as
appropriate.  Next, 
.PN getty
calls
vhangup(2)
to revoke access to the terminal by any background processes that
could have /dev/tty open.
The
.PN getty 
routine then opens /dev/tty
for reading and writing.
File descriptors 0, 1, and 2 become the standard input, output,
and diagnostic devices.  
If the terminal line is connected to a modem,
the open is
not completed until someone dials up and establishes carrier
on the channel.  
.PP 
If a terminal exists, but an error occurs when trying to
open the terminal,
.PN getty
writes a message to the system console.  The message is repeated
every 10 minutes until the terminal is available, or
.RS
.IP 1. 0.3i
The /etc/ttys
entry for the terminal is modified to indicate that
the terminal is off, and
.IP 2. 0.3i
init(8) is notified by a hangup.
.RE
.PP
.PN getty
checks every minute to see if the terminal is still off.
.PP
Next,
.PN getty
reads a login name, terminated by a newline or carriage-return
character.  For a carriage return, the system is set to treat
carriage returns appropriately.  For further information, see
tty(4).
.PP
.PN getty
scans the user's name to see if it contains any lower-case
alphabetic characters.  If it does not, and the name is
nonempty, the system is told to map any future upper-case
characters into the corresponding lower-case characters.
.PP
Finally,
.PN getty
calls
.PN login
with the user's name as an argument.
.PP
Most of the
default actions of
.PN getty
can be changed with a suitable 
.PN gettytab
table.
.PP
.PN getty
can be set to timeout after some interval with the
\fIto\fR variable in the gettytab(5)
table.
Thus,
if the user does not enter a login name after a reasonable
amount of time,
.PN getty
hangs up the dialup line.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fItty\fR 
The special device file in 
the /dev
directory to open
for the terminal (for example, ttyh0). 
If there is no argument or the argument is "+", the 
terminal line
is assumed to be open as file descriptor 0.
.IP \fItype\fR 
Used to make
.PN getty
treat the line specially.
This argument is used as an index into the
gettytab(5)
database, to determine the characteristics of the line.
If there is no argument, or there is no such table, the
default entry in gettytab(5)
is used.  
If there is no /etc/gettytab,
a set of system defaults is used.
.IP
If indicated by the table located,
.PN getty
will clear the terminal screen,
print a banner heading,
and prompt for a login name.
Usually either the banner or the login prompt will include
the system hostname.
Then the user's name is read, a character at a time.
If a null character is received, it is assumed to be the result
of the user pushing the break (interrupt) key.
The speed is usually then
changed and the ``login:'' prompt is displayed again.
a second break changes the speed again and redisplays the ``login:''
prompt.  Successive break characters cycle through 
some standard set of speeds.
.SH FILES
.IP /etc/gettytab 1i
Data base describing terminal lines
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN getty
uses syslog(3) to produce diagnostic messages.  
Therefore,
the syslog configuration file will determine where the messages
are printed.  For further information, see syslog(8). 
.LP
\fBgetty: \fR\fItty\fR\|\fB: cannot open\fR.
.RS
A terminal which is turned
on in the 
.PN ttys
file cannot be opened. This is probably because the requisite
lines are either not configured into the system or the associated device
was not attached during boot-time system configuration.
The syslog error logging level is LOG_ERR.
.RE
.LP
\fBgetty: \fR\fIcommand, tty\fR\fB failing, open blocked\fR.  
.RS
.PN getty
tried a non-blocking open of the terminal line and 
the open still blocked.  This can only happen on devices that
have not implemented O_NDELAY.
For further information, see open(2).  
.PN getty
tries to continue but the line may not be properly 
initialized.
The syslog error logging level is LOG_ERR.
.RE
.LP
\fBgetty: \fR\fIcommand, tty\fR\fB  open failed, reason\fR.  
.RS
.PN getty
tried a non-blocking open of the terminal line and 
the open failed.  \fIreason\fR is the explanation
produced by the perror(3) routine for
why the open failed.
.PN getty
tries to continue but the line may not be properly 
initialized.
The syslog error logging level is LOG_ERR.
.RE
.LP
\fBgetty: in use line\fR \fItty\fR.
.RS
\fItty\fR is ``in use'' by some other process.  
.PN getty
will not initialize a line that is already ``in use''.
.PN getty
will block until the line is no longer in use.
See tty(4) and open(2)
for discussions on shared lines.
The syslog error logging level is LOG_INFO.
.RE
.LP
\fBgetty could not set pgrp, \fIreason\fR.
.RS
.PN getty
tried and failed 
to initialize the process group of the terminal to process
group 0.  See tty(4) for a discussion of process groups.
\fIreason\fR is the 
explanation produced by perror(3) 
for the failure.
The syslog error logging level is LOG_INFO.
.RE
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
login(1), tty(4), gettytab(5), ttys(5), init(8), syslog(8)
