.TH ifconfig 8c
.SH NAME
ifconfig \- configure network interface parameters
.SH SYNTAX  
.B /etc/ifconfig
interface
[
.I address
[
.I dest_address
] ] [
.I parameters
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN Ifconfig
command assigns an address
to a network interface and/or configures
network interface parameters.
You must use
.PN ifconfig
at boot time to define the network address
of each interface present on a machine. You can also use 
it at a later time to redefine an interface's address.  The
.I interface
parameter is a string of the form ``name unit'', e.g. ``en0''. 
The address is either a host name present in the host name data
base, hosts(5),
or a DARPA Internet address expressed in the Internet standard
dot notation.
.PP
You can set the following parameters with 
.IR ifconfig :
.IP \fBup\fR 1i
Marks an interface ``up.'' 
.IP \fBdown\fR 1i
Mark an interface ``down.''  When an interface is
marked ``down,'' the system does not attempt to
transmit messages through that interface. 
.IP \fBtrailers\fR 1i
Enables the use of a trailer link level encapsulation when
sending (default).
If a network interface supports
.IR trailers ,
the system, when possible, encapsulates outgoing
messages in a manner that minimizes the number of
memory-to-memory copy operations performed by the receiver.
.IP \fB\-trailers\fR 1i
Disables the use of a trailer link level encapsulation.
.IP \fBarp\fR 1i
Enables the use of the Address Resolution Protocol in mapping
between network level addresses and link level addresses (default). 
This is currently implemented for mapping between DARPA Internet
addresses and 10Mb/s Ethernet addresses.
.IP \fB\-arp\fR 1i
Disables the use of the Address Resolution Protocol.
.IP \fBdebug\fR 1i
Enables driver-dependent debugging code. Usually, this turns on
extra console error logging.
.IP \fB\-debug\fR 1i
Disables driver dependent debugging code.
.IP \fBnetmask\fR 1i
Specify how much of the address you wish to
reserve for subdiving Class A and B networks
into sub-networks.  (Inet only).
.IP \fBdstaddr\fR 1i
Specify the correspondent on the other end of
a point to point link
.IP \fBbroadcast\fR 1i
Specify the address you wish to use to
represent broadcasts to the network.
.PP
The
.PN ifconfig
command displays the current configuration for a network interface
when no optional parameters are supplied.
.PP
Only the superuser can modify the configuration of a network interface.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Messages indicating the specified interface do not exist, the
requested address is unknown, the user 
tried to alter an interface's configuration
but is not privileged.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
netstat(1), intro(4n), rc(8)
