.\" Last revised by MJT  10-Apr-85  1729
.\" GCT last update: 4/5/85
.\" to produce output: 
.\" ditroff -Tln01 -t -man filename | lpr -n -Pln &
.TH lcp 8 dc
.SH NAME
lcp \- Local Area Transport server (LAT) control program
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/lcp
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The LAT control program,
lcp,
provides the essential functions
to control and manage LAT terminal service. 
It allows you to
start and stop LAT service, modify and display configuration
characteristics, and
display and zero error counters.
The command
lcp \-s 
is usually included in the 
/etc/rc.local 
file to automatically restart LAT service
during reboot. 
.SH OPTIONS
The following options may be set with 
.IR lcp :
.TP 15
.B \-s
Start LAT service. Enable connections from LAT terminal servers to 
host. If LAT parameters have not been set, they take on default values
specified in the \-r option. 
.TP 15
.B \-r
Reset LAT parameters to the following default values:
.br
multicast timer: 30 seconds
.br
nodename: hostname
.br
node description: ``ULTRIX-32''
.br
servicename: hostname
.br
service description: ``ULTRIX LAT SERVICE''
.br
.TP 15
.B \-g
Set groups to \fIgrp1\fR, \fIgrp2\fR, ... , \fIgrpn\fR.
For example, lcp -g 128 or lcp -g 56,5,102 sets these groups.
The groups are separated by commas with no spaces and a line
cannot be carried over in a shell script.
.TP
.B \-h
Only available to host-initiated connects.  The groups are
separated by commas with no spaces and a line cannot be carried
over in a shell script.
.TP
.B \-H
Only available to terminal server initiated connects.  The groups
are separated by commas with no spaces and therefore a line 
cannot be carried over in a shell script.
.TP 15
.B \-m    
Sets multicast transmission timer to the specified time
(next argument).
A node advertises its presence
to the LAT servers
by sending out a multicast message over the network. The
.I time 
variable sets the interval between transmissions. Valid
intervals range from 10 to 255 seconds, with a default of 30 seconds.
.TP 15
.B \-n    
Sets node to the specified name (next argument).
Specifies the name that your node will be
known by. Although the Terminal Server keeps track of nodes without an
associated nodename, a LAT node must have a nodename in order for a
terminal user to establish a connection. A node can have a list of
associated services and service ratings, specified 
by up to 16 alphanumeric
characters. Dollar ($) and underscore (_) characters are valid, but
leading underscores and trailing colons are removed. The nodename must
be unique on the Ethernet. The Terminal Server displays the nodename as
a service if you type the ``show services'' command, 
and as a node if you
type the ``show nodes'' command. The nodename default is the hostname.
.TP 15
.B \-N    
Sets node description to the specified message (next
argument).
The node description allows for a
short message to 
be displayed to LAT users,
providing news or additional node information.
Specify up to 64 alphanumeric characters. 
Dollar ($) and underscore (_) characters are valid, but
leading underscores and trailing colons are removed.
Leading ampersands (&) are not
allowed. The default is ``ULTRIX-32''.
You must enclose the string in double quotes (") if it
contains one or more spaces. 
.TP 15
.B \-v    
Sets service name to the specified name (next argument).
Service names allow a service
node to be known by more than just the nodename. The default is
the nodename. 
.TP 15
.B \-V    
Sets services description to specified message (next
argument).
It can be up to 64
characters in length.
You must enclose the string in double quotes (") if it
contains one or more spaces. 
.TP 15
.B \-t	  
Stop LAT service. Disable connections from LAT terminal servers to 
host.
.TP 15
.B \-d    
Display LAT characteristics. Shows the LAT parameters at their current
setting. The following is an example of the output of the \-d option:
.EX
% /etc/lcp \-d

Node name: NODE 	Service name: NODE
Node Identification: ULTRIX LAT service
Service Identification: ULTRIX-32
Groups: 0
Multicast timer: 30 seconds
LAT version: 5 eco: 0  LAT Protocol is active
.EE
.TP 15
.B \-z    
Reinitializes (zeroes out) error counters.
To test system performance over a period of
time, zero the counters and observe the information that accumulates.
.TP 15
.B \-c    
Displays error counters in vertical format.  If an
interval also is specified (next argument), displays
error counters in horizontal format every interval seconds.
The following is an example of the output of the \-c option:
.EX
% /etc/lcp \-c
67413 Frames received (rcv)
   32 Duplicate frames received (rcvdup)
89005 Frames transmitted (xmit)
   62 Retransmissions (rexmit)
    0 Illegal messages received (illmesg)
    0 Illegal slots received (illslots)
.EE
.TP 15
.B interval 
Continuously display error counters in horizontal format,
waiting 
.I interval
seconds between each iteration. Quit by sending a keyboard interrupt.
The following is an example of the output of the interval
option: 
.EX
% /etc/lcp 10
rcv     rcvdup  xmit    rexmit  illmesg  illslots
67474   32      89066   62      0        0
67483   32      89067   62      0        0
67491   32      89073   62      0        0
67502   32      89089   62      0        0
.EE
.SH Error Counters
The meaning of each error counter is explained below.
.IP \fBrcv\fR 15
number of Ethernet LAT messages.
.br
.IP \fBrcvdup\fR 15
number of duplicate messages received (normally
indicates a system slowdown).
.br
.IP \fBxmit\fR 15
number of transmitted Ethernet LAT messages.
.br
.IP \fBrexmit\fR 15
number of transmit frames that are sent more than once.
.br
.IP \fBillmesg\fR 15
number of bad messages flagged by the LAT driver.
.IP \fBillslots\fR 15
number of bad transmission slots flagged by the driver.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Messages indicating that user is not privileged or that LAT
service is not loaded.
.SH FILES
.DT
/etc/ttys
.br
/etc/rc.local
.SH SEE ALSO
lta(4), ttys(5) 
