.TH lpx 8 
.SH NAME
lpx \- line printer exerciser
.SH SYNTAX
.B /usr/field/lpx
[
.B \-h
] [
.BI \-o file
.B ] [
.BI \-p n
.B ] [
.BI \-t m
.B ] 
.BI \-d dev
.SH DESCRIPTION
The line printer exerciser outputs a rolling character
pattern to the printer. Five pages are output and then
the printer will pause for 15 minutes (default).  Then
5 more pages are output, followed by a pause.  This
pattern continues until the process receives a
.CT C
or a \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.LP
Disable the line printer queue of the printer to be tested
before running
.PN lpx.
Check the /etc/printcap
file to determine the line printer queue,
and then run line printer control
program /etc/lpc
to disable the printer.
This will stop other jobs from interfering with the
testing.
.SH ARGUMENTS
You must specify the following function flag and its
argument to the
.PN lpx
exerciser:
.IP \fb\-d\fIdev\fR .5i
The line printer device name and unit number
to test as listed in the
.PN /dev
directory.  For example, lp, lp1.
.SH OPTIONS
The 
.PN lpx
options are:
.IP \fB\-h\fR .5i
Print the help messages for the 
.PN lpx 
command.
.IP \fB\-o\fIfile\fR
Save the output diagnostics in \fIfile\fR.
.IP \fB\-p\fIn\fR
Set pause for \fIn\fR minutes.  During the pause period,
.PN lpx
will
only exercise the controller, saving paper. 
The default value for \fIn\fR is 15.  A value of \fIn\fR = 0 
indicates no pause.
.IP \fB\-t\fIm\fR
Run time in minutes (\fIm\fR). 
The default is to run
.PN lpx
run until the process receives a
.CT C 
or \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example causes
.PN lpx
to exercise lp1 until the process receives a
.CT C
or \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.EX
% /usr/field/lpx -dlp1 
.EE
The following example exercises lp for 120 minutes in
the background.
.EX
% /usr/field/lpx -t120 -dlp &
.EE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
System Management Guide
