.TH makedbm 8yp
.SH NAME
makedbm \- make a Yellow Pages dbm file
.SH SYNTAX
.B makedbm
[
.B \-i
.I yp_input_file 
] 
[
.B \-o
.I yp_output_name 
] 
[
.B \-d
.I yp_domain_name 
] 
[
.B \-m
.I yp_master_name 
] 
.I infile 
.I outfile
.br
.B makedbm
[
.B \-u
.I dbmfilename 
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "makedbm command"  ""  "\fLmakedbm\fP \(em make yellow pages dbm file"
.IX  "make yellow pages dbm file"  ""  "make yellow pages dbm file \(em \fLmakedbm\fP"
.IX  "create yellow pages dbm file"  ""  "create yellow pages dbm file \(em \fLmakedbm\fP"
.IX  "yellow pages"  "make dbm file"  ""  "make dbm file \(em \fLmakedbm\fP"
The 
.PN makedbm
command takes the file specified by the argument
.I infile
and converts it to a pair of files in dbm(3x)
format, namely
.I outfile.pag
and
.I outfile.dir.
Each line of the input file is converted to a single
.PN dbm
record.
All characters up to the first tab or space form the key,
and the rest of the line is defined as the key's associated data.
If a line ends with a backslash character (\),
the data for that record is continued onto the next line.
It is left for the clients of the Yellow Pages to interpret the number 
character (#);
.PN makedbm
does not treat it as a comment character.  The
.I infile
parameter can be \-, in which case
.PN makedbm
reads the standard input.
.LP
The
.PN makedbm
command is meant to be used in generating
.PN dbm
files for the Yellow Pages service.
The 
.PN makedbm
command generates a special entry with the key 
.I yp_last_modified,
which is the date of
.I infile.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i
Create a special entry with the key 
.IR yp_input_file.
.TP
.B \-o
Create a special entry with the key 
.I yp_output_name.
.TP
.B \-d
Create a special entry with the key 
.I yp_domain_name.
.TP
.B \-m
Create a special entry with the key 
.I yp_master_name.  
If no master host name is specified, 
.I yp_master_name 
will be set to the local host name.
.TP
.B \-u
Undo a
.PN dbm
file.
That is, print out a
.PN dbm
file one entry per line,
with a single space separating keys from values.
./"
./"the makedbm(8yp) man. page. All strings in ""'s were italicized in 
./"the original man. 
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows how a combination of commands can be used
to make the Yellow Pages dbm files passwd.byname.pag
and passwd.byname.dir 
from the /etc/passwd 
file.  The percent sign (%) signifies the system prompt.
.PP
.EX
% awk 'BEGIN { FS = ":"; OFS = "\t"; } 
 { print $1, $0 }' /etc/passwd > ptmp
% makedbm ptmp passwd.byname
% rm ptmp
.EE
.LP
The 
.PN awk
command creates the file 
.I ptmp
which is in a form usable by
.PN makedbm.
The 
.PN makedbm 
command uses the
.I ptmp 
file to create the Yellow Pages dbm files passwd.byname.dir
and passwd.byname.pag.
The 
.PN rm
command removes the 
.I ptmp
file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
yppasswd(1yp), dbm(3x), ypmake(8yp)
