.TH memx 8 
.SH NAME
memx \- memory exerciser
.SH SYNTAX
.B /usr/field/memx
[
.B \-h
] [
.B \-s
] [
.BI \-o file
.B ] [
.BI \-t i
.B ] [
.BI \-m j
.B ] [
.BI \-p k
.B ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN memx 
memory exerciser spawns processes to 
exercise memory
by writing and reading three patterns: 1's and 0's, 0's and 1's,
and a random pattern.
.PP
You specify the number of processes to spawn 
and the size of memory to be tested by each 
process. The first process is a shared memory
exerciser, the remaining are standard memory
exercisers. The 
.PN memx
exerciser
will run until the process
receives a
.CT C
or a \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.PP
A logfile is made in /usr/field
for you to examine and then remove. If there are errors
in the logfile, check the /usr/adm/syserr/syserr.<hostname> 
file, where the driver and kernel error
messages are saved.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.PN memx
options are:
.IP \fB\-h\fR 1i
Print the help message for the
.PN memx
command.
.IP \fB\-s\fR 1i
Disable shared memory testing.
.IP \fB\-o\fIfile\fR 1i
Save diagnostic output in \fIfile\fR.
.IP \fB\-t\fIi\fR 1i
Run time in minutes (\fIi\fR).  The default is to run until
the process receives a
.CT C 
or a \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.IP \fB\-m\fIj\fR 1i
The memory size in bytes (\fIj\fR) to be tested by each spawned
process.  Must be greater than 4095.  The default is
(total-memory)/20.
.IP \fB\-p\fIk\fR 1i
The number of processes to spawn (\fIk\fR).  The default is 20.
The maximum is also 20.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The 
.PN memx 
exerciser is restricted by the size
of swap space available.  The size of the swap space and
the size of internal memory available will determine how
many processes can run on the system.  For example,
If there were 16Mbytes
of swap space and 16Mbytes of memory, all of the
swap space would be used if all 20 spawned memory exercisers
were running.  In that event, no new processes would be able to run.
On systems with large amounts of memory and small swap
space restricting the number of memory exercisers and/or
size of memory being test must be done.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example tests all of memory by running 20
spawned processes until a
.CT C
or \fBkill -15\fI pid\fR is received.
.EX
% /usr/field/memx 
.EE
The following example runs 10 spawned processes, memory size 500,000
bytes, for 180 minutes in the background.
.EX
% /usr/field/memx -t180 -m500000 -p10 &
.EE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
System Management Guide
