.TH mop_mom 8 
.SH NAME
mop_mom \- MOP down-line/up-line load listener 
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/mop_mom 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN mop_mom 
listens for down-line load and up-line dump
requests on behalf of your local 
ULTRIX node.  The
.PN mop_mom 
command is usually included in the /etc/rc.local 
file as a backround task.  When a 
down-line load or up-line dump request is received from a target node, 
.PN mop_mom
spawns the loader, 
.B mop_dumpload, 
to process the load request.  The following minimum 
criteria must be met for 
.B mop_dumpload 
to accept and process a load request:
.PP
.RS 5
The Ethernet 
physical address of the target node 
must be specified in the nodes database entry for the requesting 
target node.  For further information, see 
addnode(8).
.PP
The loader must be given the name of the image file to down-line load. 
If the image file name is specified in a target node's down-line load 
request, then the loader uses that file.  Otherwise, the file name 
must be defined in the requesting node's database entry.
For further information, see addnode(8).  
If an absolute pathname is not associated with the image file name, the 
primary default path, /usr/lib/mop, is used.  If the image file is not
in /usr/lib/mop, the secondary default, 
/usr/lib/dnet, is used.  The names of the files in /usr/lib/dnet 
must be in lowercase with a .sys extension.
.PP
The loader must be given the name of the dump 
file that will contain the 
up-line dump image of the requesting node's memory.  The dump file 
name must be defined in the requesting node's database entry.
For further information, see addnode(8).
.RE 
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
/etc/mop_mom & 
.EE
.PP
This command is usually included in the 
/etc/rc.local 
file, which causes 
.PN mop_mom 
to listen for down-line and up-line load requests.
.SH RESTRICTIONS 
Currently, 
.PN mop_mom 
supports only DECSA Terminal Servers and DECServer 100s.
.SH FILES 
.TP 30
/usr/lib/dnet mop_dumpload 
down-line loader 
.TP 30
/usr/lib/mop
primary default pathname for all image files
.TP 30
/usr/lib/dnet/*.sys
secondary default pathname
.SH SEE ALSO
addnode(8), ccr(8), getnode(8), load(8), remnode(8), trigger(8)
.br
System Management Guide
