.TH mount 8nfs
.SH NAME
mount, umount \- mount and unmount a Network File System (NFS)
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/mount \-t nfs [
.B \-r \-v
.B \-o 
.I options 
.B ] 
.I special name
.PP
.B /etc/umount [
.B \-v ] 
.I name
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "NFS mount command"  ""  "\fLmount\fP \(em mount file system"
.IX  "mount NFS file system"  ""  "mount file system \(em \fLmount\fP"
.IX  "NFS file system"  "mount"  ""  "mount \(em \fLmount\fP"
.IX  "NFS umount command"  ""  "\fLumount\fP \(em unmount file system"
.IX  "unmount NFS file system"  ""  "unmount file system \(em \fLumount\fP"
.IX  "demount NFS file system"  ""  "demount file system \(em \fLumount\fP"
.IX  "NFS file system"  "unmount"  ""  "unmount \(em \fLumount\fP"
.IX  "NFS file system"  "demount"  ""  "demount \(em \fLumount\fP"
The mount(8nfs)
command determines if the file system to be mounted is of type NFS.
The file system is of type NFS if the
.I special 
argument is of the form:
host:remote_name.
Remote_name is the name of a file system (or subtree
of a file system) that has been exported by host.
The file
.I name
must exist and it
must be a directory.
It becomes the name of the newly mounted file system.
.PP
.\" If invoked with \fB\-p\fP,
.\" .B nfs_mount
.\" prints the list of mounted NFS file systems reading standard input
.\" for \fBstruct v_fs_data\fR records output from the
.\" .B getmnt()
.\" system call.
.\" This option is used by the
.\" mount(8)
.\" command.
.\" .PP
The umount(8nfs)
command unmounts the remote file system that was previously
mounted on directory
.I name.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-r
Indicates that the file system
is to be mounted read-only.
.TP 12
.B \-v
Verbose flag to tell what did or did not happen.
.TP 12
\fB\-o \fIoptions\fR
Specifies 
.I options
as a sequence of comma-separated words from the list below.
The defaults are:
.sp .5
\fBrw,hard,intr,retry=10,000,timeo=11,retrans=4,port=NFS_PORT\fR
.sp .5
Defaults for 
.I rsize 
and 
.I wsize 
are set by the kernel.
The NFS options are:
.RS
.LP
.IP \fBrw\fR 1i
read/write.
.IP \fBro\fR
read-only.
.IP \fBbg\fR 1i
If the first mount attempt fails, retry in the background.
.IP \fBretry=\fIn\fR
Set number of mount failure retries to 
.I n.
.IP \fBrsize=\fIn\fR
Set read buffer size to 
.I n 
bytes.
.IP \fBwsize=\fIn\fR
Set write buffer size to 
.I n
bytes.
.IP \fBtimeo=\fIn\fR
Set NFS timeout to 
.I n 
tenths of a second.
.IP \fBretrans=\fIn\fR 
Set number of NFS retransmissions to 
.I n.
.IP \fBport=\fIn\fR
Set server IP port number to 
.I n.
.IP \fBsoft\fR
Return error if server doesn't respond.
.IP \fBhard\fR
Retry request until server responds.
.IP \fBintr\fR
Allow hard mounted file system operations to be interrupted.
.IP \fBnosuid\fR
Setuid and setgid programs may not be executed from this file system.
.IP \fBnoexec\fR
Binaries cannot be executed from this file system.
.IP \fBpgthresh=##\fR
Set the paging threshold for this file system in kilobytes.
.RE
.IP
The
.B bg
option causes 
.B mount
to run in the background if the server's
mountd(8nfs)
does not respond.  
.B mount 
attempts each request \fBretry=\fIn\fR
times before giving up.
Once the file system is mounted,
each NFS request made in the kernel waits
\fBtimeo=\fIn\fR
tenths of a second for a response.
If no response arrives,
the time-out is multiplied by 2 
and the request is retransmitted.
When \fBretrans=\fIn\fR
retransmissions have been sent with no reply a
.B soft
mounted file system returns an error on the request and a
.B hard
mounted file system retries the request.
If a hard mounted file system was mounted with the
.B intr
option,
an operation within that file system that is retrying
(for example, the server is down) can be interrupted.
Filesystems that are mounted 
.B rw
(read-write)
should use the 
.B hard
option.
The number of bytes in a read or write request can be set with the
.B rsize
and
.B wsize
options.
.PP
The option for
.B umount
is:
.TP 12
.B \-v
Verbose output format to tell what did or did not happen.
.SH EXAMPLES
.\" The
.\" .B nfs_mount
.\" is not the suggested interface.
The mount(8nfs) command
invokes
.B nfs_mount
to do its work.
A sample
.B mount
command is:
.EX 0
# mount \-t nfs \-o hard,pgthresh=100 server:/usr /usr
.EE
.\" This would be translated to \fBnfs_mount\fP as:
.\" .EX 0
.\" nfs_mount \-o hard,pgthresh=100 server:/usr /usr
.\" .EE
To mount with 1K transfer size:
.EX 0
# mount \-t nfs \-o soft,rsize=1024,wsize=1024 serv:/usr/src /usr/src
.EE
To mount a remote file system:
.EX 0
# mount \-t nfs serv:/usr/src /usr/src
.EE
To hard mount a remote file system:
.EX 0
# mount \-t nfs \-o hard serv:/usr/src /usr/src
.EE
.\" The
.\" .B nfs_umount
.\" is not the suggested interface.
.\" The umount(8nfs) command invokes
.\" .B nfs_umount
.\" to do its work.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
If the directory on which a file system is to be mounted is a
symbolic link,
the file system is mounted on 
the directory to which the symbolic link refers,
rather than being mounted on top of the symbolic link itself.
.PP
The
.B /etc/nfs_mount
and
.B /etc/nfs_umount
commands should only be invoked by the mount(8nfs)
and umount(8nfs)
commands.
Users (and superusers) should not invoke the
.B nfs_mount
and
.B nfs_umount
commands.
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
/etc/fstab	File system information file.
/etc/nfs_mount	NFS specific mount program.
/etc/nfs_umount	NFS specific unmount program.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getmnt(2), mount(2), fstab(5), exports(5nfs), mount(8),
umount(8), mountd(8nfs)
