.TH mount 8
.SH NAME
mount, umount \- General description to mount or unmount a file system
.SH SYNTAX
/etc/mount [ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fIspecial\fR ] [ \fIname\fR ]
.PP
/etc/umount [ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fIspecial\fR ] [ \fIname\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a general description of the 
.B mount 
command.
Additional 
.B mount 
descriptions,
such as
mount(8nfs)
and 
mount(8ufs)
are provided to 
define the 
.B mount
syntax and options for each specific file system.
.LP
Each invocation of the
.B mount
command announces to the system that a file system
is present on the device \fIspecial\fR.
The file system
may be local or remote.
File
.PN name
must already exist as a directory file.
It becomes the name of the newly mounted root.
.PP
If invoked without arguments,
.B mount
prints the list of mounted file systems. 
.PP
Physically write-protected disks and magnetic tape file
systems must be mounted read-only
or an error will occur at mount time.
.PP
The 
.B umount
command announces to the system that the removable
file system previously mounted on device
.I special
is to be removed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-a
Read the file
.I /etc/fstab
and mount all file systems listed there.
.TP 12
.B \-r
Indicates that the file system
is to be mounted read-only.
.TP 12
\fB\-t\fR \fItype\fR
Specify what type of file system is being mounted.
When used with the 
.B \-a
option, the
\fB\-t\fR \fItype\fR
option specifies mounting all file systems of the given type found in
the
.PN /etc/fstab
file.
For specific file system types,
refer to the file system-specific
.B mount
description,
such as 
mount(8nfs).
.TP 12
.B \-v
Verbose flag to tell what did or did not happen.
.TP 12
\fB\-o\fR \fIoptions\fR
The
.I options
is a string that is passed to the kernel and used by
the specific file system's mount routine in the kernel.
For specific options,
refer to the file system-specific 
.B mount 
description, such as 
mount(8nfs).
.PP
The options for
.B umount
are:
.TP 12
.B \-a
Unmount all currently mounted file systems.
It may be necessary to execute
.B umount
.B \-a
twice to 
accomplish unmounting of all mounted file systems.
.TP 12
.B \-v
Verbose output format to tell what did or did not happen.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Mounting corrupted file systems will crash the system.
.SH FILES
/etc/fstab	File systems information table
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getmnt(2), mount(2), fstab(5), fsck(8), mount(8nfs), mount(8ufs)
