.TH mount 8ufs
.SH NAME
mount \- mount the local ULTRIX File System (UFS)
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/mount [
.B \-r \-v
.B \-o options
.B ] special name
.SH DESCRIPTION
The mount(8ufs)
command announces to the system that a file system
is present on the device
.I special.
.I Special
must be a local device.
The file
.I name
must already exist and it must be a directory.
It becomes the name of the newly mounted file system.
.PP
.\" If invoked with \fB\-p\fP,
.\" .PN ufs_mount
.\" prints the list of mounted file systems reading standard input
.\" for \fIstruct fs_data\fP records output from the
.\" .I getmnt()
.\" system call. This option is used by the mount(8) command.
.\" .PP
If invoked with \fB\-r\fP, the device \fIspecial\fP is mounted
on \fIname\fP \fBread-only\fP.
.PP
To further protect from system crashes,
only file systems that have
been cleanly checked by fsck(8)
are mounted.
In emergency situations,
this can be overridden by the
.I force
option as shown below.
.PP
Options may be specified to the file
system using the \fB\-o\fP flag as follows:
.TP 8
.B nosuid
Setuid and setgid programs may not be executed from this file system.
.TP 8
.B nodev
Block and character special devices
cannot be accessed from this file system.
.TP 8
.B noexec
Binaries cannot be executed from this file system.
.TP 8
.B pgthresh=##
Set the paging threshold for this file system in kilobytes.
.TP 8
.B force
Root may force the mounting of non-clean file systems.
.PP
Physically write-protected disks and magnetic tape file
systems must be mounted read-only
or an error will occur at mount time.
You should use the
.B force
flag only in single user mode when repairing
or recovering damaged file systems.
.SH EXAMPLES
.\" The
.\" PN ufs_mount
.\" command is not the suggested interface.
The
.B mount 8ufs
command calls
.B ufs_mount
to do its work.
A sample
.B mount
command is:
.EX
# mount \-t ufs \-o nodev,nosuid,noexec,pgthresh=100 /dev/ra0g /usr
.EE
.\" .PP
.\" This would be translated to 
.\" .PN ufs_mount 
.\" as
.\" .EX
.\" ufs_mount -o nodev,nosuid,noexec,pgthresh=100 /dev/ra0g /usr
.\" .EE
.\" .PP
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The
.B /etc/ufs_mount
command should only be invoked by the mount(8ufs) command.
Users (and superusers) should not invoke the
.B ufs_mount
command.
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
/etc/ufs_mount	UFS specific mount program.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getmnt(2), mount(2), mount(8)
