.TH mtx 8 
.SH NAME
mtx \- Generic Magtape Exerciser
.SH SYNTAX
.B /usr/field/mtx
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-a dev
.br
.B /usr/field/mtx
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-s dev
.br
.B /usr/field/mtx
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-l dev
.br
.B /usr/field/mtx
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-v dev
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN mtx 
exerciser will write, read, and validate random
data on the specified magnetic tape device from beginning
of tape (BOT) to end of tape (EOT).
There are four record length modes in which to run 
this exerciser:
.IP \(bu 0.3i
Short (512 bytes)
.IP \(bu 0.3i
Long (10240 bytes)
.IP \(bu 0.3i
Variable (512-20480 bytes)
.IP \(bu 0.3i
All three of the above in sequence. 
.PP
The exerciser will run 
until 
.CT C
or a \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR is
sent to the process. 
.PP
A logfile is made in /usr/field
for you to examine and then remove. If there are errors
in the logfile, check the /usr/adm/syserr/syserr.<hostname> 
file, where the driver and kernel error 
messages are saved.
.SH ARGUMENTS
You must specify one of the following function flags and
its argument to the
.PN mtx
exerciser.
.IP \fB\-a\fIdev\fR 1i
Perform short, long, and variable-length record tests
on the \fIdev\fR, a raw device name and unit number.  For
example, \fB\-armt0h\fR.
.IP \fB\-s\fIdev\fR 1i
Perform short (512-byte) record length test.  The \fIdev\fR
argument is a raw device name and unit number.  For example,
\fB\-srmt0h\fR.
.IP \fB\-l\fIdev\fR 1i
Perform long (10240-byte) record length test.  The \fIdev\fR
argument is a raw device name and unit number.  For example
\fB\-lrmt0h\fR.
.IP \fB\-v\fIdev\fR 1i
Perform variable record lenth test (records vary from 512 bytes
to 20480 bytes).  The \fIdev\fR argument is a raw device name
and unit number.  For example, \fB\-vrmt0h\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fImtx\fR options are:
.IP \fB\-h\fR 1i
Print help message for the 
.PN mtx 
command.
.IP \fB\-o\fIfile\fR 1i
Save diagnostic output in \fIfile\fR.
.IP \fB\-t\fIi\fR
Run time in minutes (\fIi\fR). 
The default is to run until the process receives
a 
.CT C
or \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.IP \fB\-r\fIj\fR
Record length for long-record test.  May range from 1 - 20480;
the default is 10240 bytes.
.IP \fB\-f\fIk\fR
Size of file in records. 
The default is \-1, go to end-of-tape. 
.SH EXAMPLES
This example runs short, long, and variable-length tests
on rmt0h until the process receives a
.CT C
or
\fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.EX
% /usr/field/mtx -armt0h
.EE
The following example runs a long-record length test on
rmt0h for 240 minutes in the background.
.EX
% /usr/field/mtx -lrmt0h -t240 &
.EE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
System Management Guide
