.\" Last modified by MJT on 29-Apr-85  0241
.\" Make that liza sanford-crane!  (7/30/86)
.\"
.TH netsetup 8
.SH NAME
netsetup - set up local area network files
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/netsetup [ install ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
netsetup(8)
command allows you to:
.IP \(bu
Add your system to a local area network (LAN)
.IP \(bu
Update the
/etc/hosts
and
/etc/hosts.equiv
files
.SH
Adding Your System to a LAN
.LP
To add your system to a LAN,
bring the system to single-user mode.
Then run the
.B netsetup
command with the \fBinstall\fR option
and answer the questions.
The network manager should be able to provide you with the
following information ahead of time:
.IP \(bu
What is your network number
and what is your host number?
.IP \(bu
What is your Internet Protocol (IP) broadcast address?
(Does the LAN use all zeros (0) or ones (1)?)
.IP \(bu
Does the LAN use subnet routing?
If the answer is yes,
then how many bits of the host part of the Internet address
are used to specify the subnet part of the network address?
.NT
If your LAN uses subnet routing,
remember to enter the subnet number as part of the host number.
.NE
After the
.B netsetup
command has completed,
reboot the system.
.SH
Adding or Modifying the LAN Files
.LP
To add or modify hosts in the
/etc/hosts
or
/etc/hosts.equiv
files,
run the
.B netsetup
command without the
.I install
option and answer all the questions.
There is no need to bring the system to single-user mode
to update these files.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta 2i
/etc/hosts
.br
/etc/hosts.equiv
.br
/etc/networks
.br
/etc/rc.local
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
The Network Management Guide
