.TH netx 8 
.SH NAME
netx \- TCP/IP net exerciser
.SH SYNTAX
.B /usr/field/netx
[
.B \-h
.B ] [
.BI \-t n
B ] [
.BI \-p m
.B ]  
.I nodename
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN netx 
exerciser sets up a stream socket connection to the
.MS miscd 8c
server in the TCP/IP internet domain. With connection
made, the exerciser writes ramdom data to the 
.PN miscd 
server; the
server loops the data back to 
.PN netx ,
and the data is read and
verified against the data written out. 
.PP
The 
.PN netx 
exerciser runs
in conjunction with the
miscd(8c) server. 
.PP
The 
.PN netx 
exerciser by default
will use the port number of the echo service in the /etc/services
file. Make sure that the TCP echo service is enabled in the 
/etc/inetd.conf file (no `#' in front of the service). The exerciser
will run until
.CT C
or \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR is sent
to the process.
The
.I nodename
is the remote or local system host name running the
miscd(8c) server.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fInetx\fR options are:
.IP \fB\-h\fR 1i
Print the help message for the 
.PN netx 
command.
.IP \fB\-t\fIn\fR
Run time in minutes (\fIn\fR).
The default is to run until the process
receives
.CT C
or \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR.
.IP \fB\-p\fIm\fR
Specify port number to use in internet domain (\fIm\fR < 32768).
Note that this option is not used with the miscd(8c)
server, so
you should never have to use this option.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example exercises the TCP/IP network from the local
host to node \fBkeel\fR until a
.CT C
or \fBkill -15 \fIpid\fR is received.
.EX
% /usr/field/netx keel
.EE
The following example exercises the TCP/IP network from the local
host to node \fBphoton\fR for 180 minutes in the background.
.EX
% /usr/field/netx -t180 photon &
.EE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
System Management Guide
