.TH newfs 8
.SH NAME
newfs \- construct a new file system
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/newfs
[
.B \-v
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B mkfs-options
]
.B special disk-type
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN newfs
command is a front-end to the mkfs(8) program.
The
.PN newfs
program looks up the type of disk a file system is
being created on in the disk description file /etc/disktab,
calculate the appropriate parameters to use in calling
.PN mkfs,
then build the file system by forking 
.PN mkfs 
and, if the file system is a root partition,
install the necessary bootstrap program
in the initial 16 sectors of the device.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.B \-n
option prevents the 
bootstrap program from being installed.
.PP
If the 
.B \-v
option is supplied, 
.PN newfs
will print out its actions, including the parameters passed to
.PN mkfs.
.PP
Options which may be used to override default
parameters passed to
.PN mkfs
are:
.TP 10
.B \-s size
The size of the file system in sectors.
.TP 10
.B \-b block-size
The block size of the file system in bytes.  
.TP 10
.B \-f frag-size
The fragment size of the file system in bytes.
.TP 10
.B \-t #tracks/cylinder
.TP 10
.B \-c #cylinders/group
The number of cylinders per cylinder group in a file system.
The default value used is 16.
.TP 10
.B \-m free space %
The percentage of space reserved from normal users; the minimum
free space threshold.  The default value used is 10%.
.TP 10
.B \-r revolutions/minute
The speed of the disk in revolutions per minute (normally 3600).
.TP 10
.B \-S sector-size
The size of a sector in bytes (almost never anything but 512).
.TP 10
.B \-i number of bytes per inode
This specifies the density of inodes in the file system.
The default is to create an inode for each 2048 bytes of data space.
If fewer inodes are desired, a larger number should be used;
to create more inodes a smaller number should be given.
.SH FILES
/etc/disktab		for disk geometry and file system partition information 
.br
/etc/mkfs		to actually build the file system
.br
/usr/mdec/vaxboot	for boot strapping program
.SH "SEE ALSO"
disktab(5), fs(5), diskpart(8), fsck(8), format(8v), mkfs(8), tunefs(8)
.br
"A Fast File System for Unix," 
.I ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, 
Vol. III: System Manager
