.TH nfsstat 8nfs
.SH NAME
nfsstat \- display Network File System statistics
.SH SYNTAX
.B /usr/etc/nfsstat 
[
.B \-csnrz
]
[
.B vmunix
]
[
.B core
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "nfsstat command"  ""  "\fLnfsstat\fP \(em display network statistics"
.IX  "NFS statistics"  "display"  ""  "display \(em \fLnfsstat\fP"
.IX  "statistics of NFS"  display  ""  "display \(em \fLnfsstat\fP"
The
.PN nfsstat
command displays statistical information about the
Network File System (NFS) and
Remote Procedure Call (RPC) interfaces in the kernel.
It can also be used to reinitialize this information.
If no options are given,
.PN nfsstat 
defaults to all options set to on except the z option. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Display client information.
The client side NFS and RPC information will be printed.
This option can be combined with the
.B \-n
and
.B \-r
options to print client NFS or client RPC information only.
.TP
.B \-s
Display server information.  The server side NFS and RPC information
will be printed.
.TP
.B \-n
Display NFS information.
NFS information for both the client and server side will be printed.
Can be combined with the
.B \-c
and
.B \-s
options to print client or server NFS information only.
.TP
.B \-r
Display RPC information. RPC information for both client and server side
will be printed.  Can be combined with the
.B \-c 
and
.B \-s 
options to print client or server RPC information only.
.TP
.B \-z
Reinitialize statistics.
Can be combined with any of the above options to reset 
particular sets of statistics to zero after printing them.
The user must have write permission on /dev/kmem
to use this option.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/kmem\0\0\0'u
/vmunix 	system namelist
.br
/dev/kmem	kernel memory
