.TH opser 8
.SH NAME
opser \- operator services utility
.SH SYNTAX   
.B opser
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B opser
program
is a utility that simplifies normal system and incremental backup.
It is invoked by default when the system
operator logs in to the operator account.  The system then runs the
opser utility, /opr/opser, in place of a shell.  The opser utility
prompts the operator to bring the system to single-user mode for file
maintenance. This includes a file system consistency check and 
file system backup, and then prompts to restart multiuser mode.
.PP
Network opser allows the operator to perform opser commands on a slave
system. The master system name must be in the /.rhosts file on the
slave system and the slave name in the in the
master system's /.rhosts file. 
If necessary, the operator can
escape to the shell, execute commands, and return.
Online help is provided.
The
.B opser
program allows remote file system backup, file system check, restart
and both local and remote shell command execution.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The local opser utility supports only tape as a backup media.
The remote opser utility allows backup to files, disks, or tapes.
The opser utility must be run from the system console; if run from a
terminal, its operation is limited.  
The opser utility does not contain file restore capability.
The operator must escape to the shell to perform this function.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Included in the utility as it runs.
.SH FILES
/opr/opser, /opr/backup, /opr/dobackup
.SH SEE ALSO
System Management Guide
.br
Network Management Guide
