.TH pstat 8
.SH NAME
pstat \- print system facts
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/pstat
.B \-aixptufTk
[
.B suboptions
] [
.B system
] [
.B corefile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN pstat
command
interprets the contents of certain system tables.
If 
.B \-k
option is given, then either system or corefile is indicated.
If
.I corefile
is given, the tables are sought there, otherwise
in /dev/kmem.
The required namelist is taken from /vmunix unless 
.I system
is specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP \w'WCHAN\ 'u
.B \-a
Under
.BR \-p ,
describe all process slots rather than just active ones.
.TP
.B \-i
Print the gnode table with the these headings:
.IP LOC
The core location of this table entry.
.PD 0
.IP FLAGS
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.IP L
locked
.IP U
update time, fs(5), must be corrected
.IP A
access time must be corrected
.IP M
file system is mounted here
.IP W
wanted by another process (L flag is on)
.IP T
contains a text file
.IP C
changed time must be corrected
.IP S
shared lock applied
.IP E
exclusive lock applied
.IP Z
someone waiting for an exclusive lock
.IP I
inuse flag is set (shared line semaphore)
.RE
.IP CNT
Number of open file table entries for this gnode.
.IP DEV
Major and minor device number of file system in which
this gnode resides.
.IP RDC
Reference count of shared locks on the gnode.
.IP WRC
Reference count of exclusive locks on the gnode (this may
be > 1 if, for example, a file descriptor is inherited across a fork).
.IP GNO
I-number within the device.
.IP MODE
Mode bits, see chmod(2).
.IP NLK
Number of links to this gnode.
.IP UID
User ID of owner.
.IP SIZ/DEV
Number of bytes in an ordinary file, or
major and minor device of special file.
.PD
.TP
.B \-x
Print the text table with these headings:
.IP LOC
The core location of this table entry.
.PD 0
.IP FLAGS
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.IP T
ptrace(2)
in effect
.IP W
text not yet written on swap device
.IP L
loading in progress
.IP K
locked
.IP w
wanted (L flag is on)
.IP F
text structure on Freelist
.IP P
resulted from demand-page-from-gnode exec format.  For further
information, see execve(2).
.RE
.PD
.IP DADDR
Disk address in swap, measured in multiples of 512 bytes.
.IP CADDR
Head of a linked list of loaded processes using this text segment.
.IP SIZE
Size of text segment, measured in multiples of 512 bytes.
.IP IPTR
Core location of corresponding gnode.
.IP CNT
Number of processes using this text segment.
.IP CCNT
Number of processes in core using this text segment.
.IP LCNT
Number of process locking this text segment.
.IP SLP
Not used.
.IP POIP
Number of pages currently being pushed out in this text segment.
.IP CMAP
The address of the last CMAP entry freed.
.PD
.TP
.B \-p
Print process table for active processes with these headings:
.IP LOC
The core location of this table entry.
.PD 0
.IP S
Run state encoded thus:
.RS
.IP 0
no process
.IP 1
waiting for some event
.IP 3
runnable
.IP 4
being created
.IP 5
being terminated
.IP 6
stopped under trace
.RE
.IP F
Miscellaneous state variables, or-ed together (hexadecimal):
.RS
.IP 000001 9n
loaded
.IP 000002
the scheduler process
.IP 000004
locked for swap out
.IP 000008
swapped out
.IP 000010
traced
.IP 000020
used in tracing
.	\".IP 000040
.	\"locked in by
.	\"lock(2).
.IP 000080
in page-wait
.IP 000100
prevented from swapping during
fork(2)
.IP 000200
gathering pages for raw i/o
.IP 000400
exiting
.IP 001000
process resulted from a
vfork(2)
which is not yet complete
.IP 002000
another flag for
vfork(2)
.IP 004000
process has no virtual memory, as it is a parent in the context of
vfork(2)
.IP 008000
process is demand paging data pages from its text gnode.
.IP 010000
process has advised of anomalous behavior 
.IP 020000
process has advised of sequential behavior 
.IP 040000
process is in a sleep which will timeout.
.IP 080000
a parent of this process has exited and this process
is now considered detached.
.IP 100000
process used 4.1BSD compatibility mode signal primitives,
no system calls will restart.
.IP 200000
process is owed a profiling tick.
.RE
.IP POIP
number of pages currently being pushed out from this process.
.IP PRI
Scheduling priority, see setpriority(2).
.IP SIGNAL
Signals received (signals 1-32 coded in bits 0-31),
.IP UID
Real user ID.
.IP SLP
Amount of time process has been blocked.
.IP TIM
Time resident in seconds; times over 127 coded as 127.
.IP CPU
Weighted integral of CPU time, for scheduler.
.IP NI
Nice level, see setpriority(2).
.IP PGRP
Process number of root of process group
(the opener of the controlling terminal).
.IP PID
The process ID number.
.IP PPID
The process ID of parent process.
.IP ADDR
If in memory, the page frame number of the page table entries
of the `u-area' of the process.
If swapped out, the position in the swap area
measured in multiples of 512 bytes.
.IP RSS
Resident set size \- the number of physical page frames allocated
to this process.
.IP SRSS
RSS at last swap (0 if never swapped).
.IP SIZE
Virtual size of process image (data+stack) in multiples of 512 bytes.
.IP WCHAN
Wait channel number of a waiting process.
.IP LINK
Link pointer in list of runnable processes.
.IP TEXTP
If text is pure, pointer to location of text table entry.
.IP CLKT
Countdown for real interval timer, setitimer(2)
measured in clock ticks (10 milliseconds).
.PD
.TP
.B \-t
Print table for terminals
with these headings:
.IP RAW
Number of characters in raw input queue.
.PD 0
.IP CAN
Number of characters in canonicalized input queue.
.IP OUT
Number of characters in output queue.
.IP MODE
See
tty(4).
.IP ADDR
Physical device address.
.IP DEL
Number of delimiters (newlines) in canonicalized input queue.
.IP COL
Calculated column position of terminal.
.IP STATE
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.IP W
waiting for open to complete
.IP O
open
.IP S
has special (output) start routine
.IP C
carrier is on
.IP B
busy doing output
.IP A
process is awaiting output
.IP X
open for exclusive use
.IP H
hangup on close
.IP S
output is stopped (ttstop)
.IP I
inuse flag is set (shared line semaphore)
.IP D
open nodelay
.IP G
ignore carrier
.IP N
non-blocking i/o
.IP Z
asychronous i/o notification
.RE
.IP PGRP
Process group for which this is controlling terminal.
.IP DISC
Line discipline; blank is old tty OTTYDISC or ``new tty'' for NTTYDISC
or ``net'' for NETLDISC.  
.PD
.TP
.B \-u
print information about a user process;
the next argument is its address as given by ps(1).
The process must be in main memory, or the file used can
be a core image and the address 0.
.TP
.B \-f
Print the open file table with these headings:
.IP LOC
The core location of this table entry.
.IP TYPE
The type of object the file table entry points to.
.PD 0
.IP FLG
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.IP R
open for reading
.IP W
open for writing
.IP A
open for appending
.IP S
shared lock
.IP X
exclusive use
.IP I
asychronous I/O notification
.IP B
block if inuse bit is set (shared line semaphore)
.RE
.IP CNT
Number of processes that know this open file.
.IP GNO
The location of the gnode table entry for this file.
.IP OFFS/SOCK
The file offset, see lseek(2),
or the core address of the associated socket structure.
.PD
.PP
.B \-s
print information about swap space usage: the number of (1k byte) pages used,
free, wasted, and missing is given, as well as the number of used 
pages which belong to text images.  The
.B missing
field indicates swap area reserved for temporary storage of the
arguments of an executing process.  In addition, swap fragmentation
is indicated by the ``wasted'' category.  ``Missing'' usually
indicates space allocated to argdev.
.PP
.B \-T
prints the number of used and free slots in the several system tables
and is useful for checking to see how full system tables have become if the
system is under heavy load.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/kmem  'u
/vmunix	namelist
.br
/dev/kmem	default source of tables
.br
/dev/mem	used for
.B -u
option.
.SH SEE ALSO
ps(1), stat(2), fs(5)
