.\" to produce output: 
.\" ditroff -Tln01 -t -man filename | lpr -n -Pln &
.TH radisk 8 dc
.UC 4
.SH NAME
radisk \- DSA disk maintenance
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/radisk
.sp
.B radisk
.B \-c 
.I LBN
.I length
.I special
.RE
.br
.B radisk
.B \-r
.I LBN
.I special
.br
.B radisk
.B \-s
.I LBN
.I length
.I special
.SH DESCRIPTION
The DSA disk maintenance program
.PN radisk
provides the essential functions to manage DSA (DIGITAL Storage
Architecture) disk devices. The
.PN radisk
command must be used on unmounted disk partitions to insure correct
results.
.PP
The
.I LBN 
is a decimal number that represents the logical block number as
reported in the errorlog file.  The LBN is the actual disk block number
starting from the beginning of the disk. The LBN specified with the
.B \-s 
option can be 
.B 0 
to indicate the first block in the specified partition.
.PP
The
.I length 
is a decimal number that indicates how many (512 byte) blocks to
process.  The length specified may be 
.B \-1 
to indicate the last block of the specified partition.
.PP
For the 
.B \-c 
and 
.B \-r 
options, the
.I special
file specified indicates an unmounted 
.B c
partition of a character device special file.  The 
.B \-s 
option will accept any valid partition on the disk. This allows any
partition to be scanned without scanning the entire disk and ensures
that the specified partition is free of bad blocks. As an example,
/dev/rra3h indicates the 
.B h 
partition of the third logical disk unit.
.PP
The following options may be set with 
.PN radisk:
.TP 15
.B \-c    
Clear a forced error indicator on the range of specified LBNs.  The
forced error condition indicates that the data in the disk block is
bad.  The disk block is good but the data can not be read without
getting a error detection code (EDC) error.  This option will cause the
forced error condition to be removed.  After the forced error indicator
is cleared, the EDC error will not be reported nor will the data be
marked as bad.  All indications that the data is corrupt are lost.  The
data should be restored either by manual methods or with the 
.PN restore
command. The 
.PN radisk 
command affects the integrity of the data on a disk and should be
followed by a file system restore if data is affected.
.TP 15
.B \-r
Replace a block on the disk.  The specified LBN will be replaced.
.TP 15
.B \-s
Start a scan for bad blocks on the specified area on a disk.  Bad blocks
are disk blocks that have data transfer errors to the extent that they
cannot be relied on.  When a bad block is found, it is replaced and the
bad block's LBN is reported.
.PP
.DT
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN radisk
command generates messages when the user is not privileged, when the
LBN is not in the specified partition, and when the length exceeds the
size of the partition.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The 
.B \-r 
option is supported only with those DSA disks which use host-initiated
dynamic bad block replacement. 
.SH SEE ALSO
dkio(4), ra(4), sdc(4), chpt(8), mount(8), restore(8)
.br
System Management Guide
