.TH ris 8
.UC 4
.SH NAME
ris \- remote installation services utility
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/ris
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B ris
utility
is an interactive utility that performs the following remote 
installation services. The
.B ris
utility
loads kits into the ris control directory,
/usr/adm/ris,
adds clients for remote installation services, and
removes clients from remote installation services.
.PP
The remote installation services use the 
/usr/adm/ris
directory as a base.
.PP
This
directory contains the subsets of the kits that can be 
installed to clients on a network. This directory also 
contains a directory called
clients,
which holds individual permission files for each client.
The permission file of a specific client
contains an ordered list of subsets that are allowed to be installed
to that client. The ordering of the permission files is checked
by the 
.B ris
utility whenever
a model permission file is used to create a client permission file.
The model
permission files allow a system manager to set up a default
network kit for a 
particular type of client. Through the use of model files the
system manager can customize a clients network kit to either
contain or omit certain subsets. This customization may be necessary
for clients with small disk capacity or for clients that are not
licensed for all the available kits. All model files begin with the
prefix "model." in order to be distinguished from client
permission files. 
.PP
The
/usr/adm/ris
directory also holds 
the instctrl directory,
which is crucial to the 
remote installation service.
This directory contains
files used to verify the contents of the individual subsets. 
.SH SEE ALSO
setld(8) 
.br
ULTRIX Network Management Guide 
