.TH rlogind 8c
.SH NAME
rlogind \- remote login server
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/rlogind
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN rlogind
command is the server for the rlogin(1c)
program.  The server provides a remote login facility
with authentication based on privileged port numbers.
.PP
The
.PN rlogind
command is invoked by inetd(8c)
when it receives a connection on
the port indicated in
the ``login'' service specification.  For further information, see
services(5).
When a service request is received the following protocol
is initiated:
.IP 1)
The server checks the client's source port.
If the port is not in the range 0-1023, the server
aborts the connection.
.IP 2)
The server checks the client's source address.
If the address is associated with a host for which no
corresponding entry exists in the host name data base 
the server aborts the connection.
For further information, see hosts(5).
.PP
Once the source port and address have been checked, 
.PN rlogind
allocates a pseudo terminal 
and manipulates file descriptors so that the slave
half of the pseudo terminal becomes the 
.B stdin ,
.B stdout ,
and
.B stderr 
for a login process.
For further information, see pty(4),
The login process is an instance of the
login(1) program, invoked with the
.B \-r
option.  The login process then proceeds with the authentication
process as described in rshd(8c),
but if automatic authentication fails, it reprompts the user
to login as one finds on a standard terminal line.
.PP
The parent of the login process manipulates the master side of
the pseudo terminal, operating as an intermediary
between the login process and the client instance of the
.PN rlogin
program.  In normal operation, the packet protocol described
in pty(4)
is invoked to provide ^S/^Q type facilities and propagate
interrupt signals to the remote programs.  The login process
propagates the client terminal's baud rate and terminal type,
as found in the environment variable, ``TERM''.  For further
information see environ(7).
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The authentication procedure used here assumes the integrity
of each client machine and the connecting medium.  This is
insecure, but is useful in an ``open'' environment.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All diagnostic messages are returned on the connection
associated with the
.BR stderr ,
after which any network connections are closed.
An error is indicated by a leading byte with a value of 1.
.PP
.B ``Hostname for your address unknown.''
.br
No entry in the host name database existed for
the client's machine.
.PP
.B ``Try again.''
.br
A
.I fork
by the server failed.
.PP
.B ``/bin/sh: ...''
.br
The user's login shell could not be started.
.SH SEE ALSO
rlogin(1c), inetd(8c)
