.TH rwhod 8c
.SH NAME
rwhod \- system status server
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/rwhod
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN rwhod
command
is the server which maintains the database used by the rwho(1c)
and ruptime(1c)
programs.  Its operation is predicated on the ability to
.I broadcast
messages on a network.
.PP
The
.PN rwhod
command
operates as both a producer and consumer of status information.
As a producer of information it periodically
queries the state of the system and constructs
status messages which are broadcast on a network.
As a consumer of information, it listens for other
.PN rwhod
servers' status messages, validating them, then recording
them in a collection of files located in the directory
/usr/spool/rwho.
.PP
The
.PN rwho
server transmits and receives messages at the port indicated
in the ``rwho'' service specification, see services(5).
The messages sent and received, are of the form:
.EX
struct  outmp {
        char    out_line[8];       /* tty name */
        char    out_name[8];       /* user id */
        long    out_time;          /* time on */
};
struct  whod {
        char    wd_vers;
        char    wd_type;
        char    wd_fill[2];
        int     wd_sendtime;
        int     wd_recvtime;
        char    wd_hostname[32];
        int     wd_loadav[3];
        int     wd_boottime;
        struct  whoent {
                struct  outmp we_utmp;
                int     we_idle;
        } wd_we[1024 / sizeof (struct whoent)];
};
.EE
All fields are converted to network byte order prior to
transmission.  The load averages are as calculated by the
w(1)
program, and represent load averages over the 5, 10, and 15 minute 
intervals prior to a server's transmission.  The host name
included is that returned by the gethostname(2) system call.
The array at the end of the message contains information about
the users logged in to the sending machine.  This information 
includes the contents of the utmp(5)
entry for each non-idle terminal line and a value indicating the
time since a character was last received on the terminal line.
.PP
Messages received by the
.PN rwho
server are discarded unless they originated at a
.PN rwho
server's port.  In addition, if the host's name, as specified
in the message, contains any unprintable ASCII characters, the
message is discarded.  Valid messages received by
.PN rwhod
are placed in files named whod . hostname
in the directory /usr/spool/rwho.
These files contain only the most recent message, in the
format described above.
.PP
Status messages are generated approximately once every
60 seconds.  
The
.PN rwhod
command performs an nlist(3)
on /vmunix every 10 minutes to guard against
the possibility that this file is not the system
image currently operating.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ruptime(1c), rwho(1c)
