.TH savecore 8
.SH NAME
savecore \- save a core dump of the operating system
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/savecore
[
.B \-c
]
[
.B \-e
]
.I dirname
[
.I system
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN savecore 
command
is meant to be called near the end of the /etc/rc.local  
file.  The 
.PN savecore
command 
saves the core dump of the system (assuming one was made) and
writes a reboot message in the shutdown log.
.PP
The 
.PN savecore
command checks the core dump to be certain it corresponds with the
current running ULTRIX.  If it does, it saves the core image in the file
\fIdirname\f(TR/vmcore.\fIn\fR
and saves the namelist in the file \fIdirname\f(TR/vmunix.\fIn\fR.
The trailing \fI.n\fR in the pathnames is replaced by a number which
increments each time
.PN savecore
is run in that directory.
.PP
After saving the core and namelist images, 
.PN savecore
will save the error logger buffer into a predetermined file.  The error
logger buffer contains information about why the crash occurred.  After 
.PN savecore
completes, the elcsd daemon will extract the error logger file and
translate its contents into a form familiar to the uerf(8)
program.
.PP
Before 
.PN savecore 
writes out a core image, it reads a number from the file
\fIdirname\f(TR/minfree\fR.
If there are fewer free blocks on the filesystem
that contains
.I dirname
than the number obtained from the \f(TRminfree\fR file, 
no core dump is done.
If the \f(TRminfree\fR
file does not exist, savecore always writes out the core
file (assuming that a core dump was taken).
.PP
The 
.PN savecore 
command
also writes a reboot message in the shut down log.  If the system crashed
as a result of a panic,
.PN savecore
also records the panic string in the shut down log.
.PP
The 
.B -c 
option is used to clear the core dump.  
This option is useful when the core
dump is corrupted in a way that will not allow
.PN savecore
to save it safely.  Use the 
.B \-c
option with caution, because once it 
is used, there is no way to retrieve the core dump again.
.PP
The
.B -e
option is used to save only the error logger buffer into a file.  If
used, no core or namelist images are saved.
.PP
If the core dump was from a system other than \f(TR/vmunix\fR, the name
of that system must be supplied as
.IR system .
.PP
After successful completion, the core dump is cleared.
.SH FILES
.IP /usr/adm/shutdownlog 1.5i
Shut down log
.IP /vmunix 1.5i
Current ULTRIX
.SH SEE ALSO
uerf(8)
