.\"
.\" GCT last update: Tue Sep 30 11:55:56 EDT 1986
.\"
.\" to produce output: ditroff -man.repro setld.8 > OUT &
.\"                   lpr -n -Pln < OUT 
.\"
.TH  setld 8
.SH NAME
 setld \- system software subset utility
.SH SYNTAX
.B setld \-d
.I subset ...
.br
.B setld \-a
.I loc-code subset ...
.br
.B setld \-i
[ \fIsubset ...\fR ]
.br
.B setld \-c
.I subset message
.br
.B setld \-l
.I loc-code
.br
.B setld \-x
.I loc-code
.br
.B setld \-v
[ \fIsubset ...\fR ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN setld
utility enables superusers to load, unload, 
and inventory software subsets.
You must be in the root directory before using the 
.PN setld
utility.
.PP
The location code, \fIloc-code,\fR is used by
.PN setld
to determine which media device to use.  Valid location codes
include the following, where \fI?\fR refers to the
logical unit number of the device:
.RS
.IP \fI/dev/rmt?h\fR 12 
or
.IP \fI/dev/rmt?l\fR 12
magnetic tapes
.IP \fI/dev/rra?a\fR 12
rx50 diskette drives
.IP \fI/mnt\fR 12
ra60 disk drives
.IP \fIhostname:\fR 12
for network installations
.RE
.PP
Note that location code for ra60 drives is a directory and that
.PN setld
assumes that the ra60 installation media is mounted there.
.PP
The following options are available with the
.PN setld
utility:
.IP \fB\-d\fR
Removes files related to the named subset or subsets
from the system hierarchy.  For example, the following
command removes the sccs software subset:
.EX
setld -d ultsccs020
.EE
.IP \fB\-a\fR 
Transfers files related to the named subset or subsets
from the installation media to the system hierarchy.
The \-a option requires an argument naming the input location 
from which the subsets are loaded.  For example, the following 
command loads the Pascal subset onto the file-system 
hierarchy that has its root in the current
working directory:
.EX
setld \-a /dev/rmt0h ultpascal020
.EE
.IP
The following command
loads the F77 and Pascal subsets from diskettes
mounted on the named rx50 device:
.EX
setld \-a /dev/rra1a ultf77020 ultpascal020
.EE
and the sequence of commands
.EX
fsck /dev/rra3g
mount /dev/ra3g /mnt
setld -a /mnt ultf77020 ultpascal020
.EE
will do the same from your ra60 pack mounted on logical unit number
3.
.IP \fB\-i\fR
Gives an inventory of all files in the named subset or subsets.  If no
argument is given,
.PN setld
Displays installed subsets in uppercase letters and
uninstalled subsets in lowercase letters.
For example, the following command lists all files contained
in the accounting software subset:
.EX
setld -i ultacct020
.EE
.IP \fB\-c\fR
Sends the specified reconfiguration message to the named subset.
.IP \fB\-l\fR
Loads any subset or subsets found on the installation media currently
mounted at the named location.  For example, the following command 
loads a layered
product from the named tape device:
.EX
setld \-l /dev/rmt0h
.EE
.IP \fB\-x\fR
Loads media images from the specified tape device to the
current working directory.  
For example, the following command loads all media
images found on the device into the current working directory:
.EX
setld \-x /dev/rmt0h
.EE
.IP \fB\-v\fR
Executes the IVP (Internal Verification Program) for layered
product subsets.  Not all layered products have them.
.SH FILES
/usr/adm/bin/ready
User Readiness Confirmation Program
.br
/usr/adm/subsets/*.ctrl	
Subset Control Data Files
.br
/usr/adm/subsets/*.image
Subset Image Data Files
.br
/usr/adm/subsets/*.inv	
Subset Inventory Data Files
.br
/usr/adm/subsets/*.lk
Lock File Specifying Subset Dependencies 
.br
/usr/adm/subsets/*.scp	
Subset Control Programs
.PP
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The system does not check for sufficient disk
storage space when a subset is added.  It is possible to
add part of a subset and then exceed the available disk
capacity on systems with small fixed disks.	  
.PP
All NFS file systems should be dismounted before using 
.PN setld
with the following options \-a, \-d, \-l.
