.TH sizer 8 
.SH NAME
sizer \- a program that sizes system hardware
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/sizer
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The sizer 
program reports various items of information about a kernel file 
and the running system.  
It is also used to create a system configuration file in the 
doconfig command.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.RS 6n
.TP 8
.B \-b
Create a boot command file for the current system disk.  Sizer 
creates the appropriate defboo and askboo command files in 
/usr/sys/*.cons.  
These files can then be used to update the systems console media.  
This only applies for VAX8600, VAX780, and VAX730 cpus.
.TP 8
.B \-c
Return the CPU type of the running cpu.  It returns one of the
following strings: VAX8800, VAX8600, VAX8200, VAX780, VAX750, 
VAX730, MVAX_II, and  MVAX_I.
.TP 8
.B \-k \fIimage\fP
Use the indicated kernel file instead of /vmunix.  This is useful when
the running system is not /vmunix or you wish information about a
system that is not running.
.TP 8
.B \-r
Return only the name of the root device and partition.
.TP 8
.B \-s
Return only the CPU subtype of the running cpu.  It returns 
following values for the following cpus:
.PP
.nf
.in +5
Returned
Value		 CPU 

11		VAX8800
10		VAX8700
 9		VAX8550
 8		VAX8500
 6		VAX8300
 5		VAX8200
 4		VAXstation 2000
 1		MicroVAX II

The value 0 is returned for all other cpu types.
.in -5
.fi
.PP
.RE
.SH FILES
/usr/sys/730cons/defboo.cmd,
/usr/sys/780cons/defboo.cmd,
/usr/sys/8600cons/defboo.com,
/usr/sys/730cons/askboo.cmd,
/usr/sys/780cons/askboo.cmd,
/usr/sys/8600cons/askboo.com
.SH SEE ALSO
ed(1), config(8), doconfig(8)
Installation Guide 
