.TH uerf 8
.UC 4
.SH NAME
uerf \- ULTRIX error report formatter  
.SH SYNTAX
.B /etc/uerf [ option ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The uerf command prints a record of system events.  
These events include error messages relating to the system hardware 
and the software kernel as
well as information about system status, startup, and diagnostics.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 1i
.B \-A \fIadapter ...\fR
Selects adapter and device controller errors.  
All adapter error types are selected if none is specified. 
.RS 1i
.IP "\fBaie\fR" 7
Reports errors for BVP-type controller.
.IP "\fBaio\fR"
Reports errors for BVP-type controller.
.IP "\fBbla\fR"
Reports errors for the BI LESI adapter.
.IP "\fBbua\fR"
Reports errors for the BI UNIBUS adapter.
.IP "\fBnmi\fR"
Reports errors for the Nautilus memory interconnect.
.IP "\fBuba\fR"
Reports errors for the VAX UNIBUS adapter.
.RE
.TP 1i
.B \-c\fI\| classes\fR
Selects classes of events.  
.RS 1i
.IP \fBerr\fR 7
Reports all hardware- and software-detected error conditions. 
.IP \fBmaint\fR 7
Reports any event that occurs during system maintenance, for
example, running the on-line functional exercisers.
.IP \fBoper\fR 7
Reports information on system status, autoconfiguration messages,
device status or error messages, time stamps, and system startup and
shutdown messages.
.RE
.TP 1i
.B \-D\fI\| disks\fR
Selects the mscp disk device type, for example, ra60, or class, for
example, ra, about which to report errors.  If you do not specify any
parameters, all disk types are reported.  See
.MS ra 4 
for a list of supported mscp disk devices.
.TP 1i
.B \-f\fI\| filename 
Outputs error information from the specified file rather than the
default errorlog file 
/usr/adm/syserr/syserr.\fIhostname\fR.
Hostname is the name of the local system.  Use this option to look at
old or backup errorlog files not in the default location 
/usr/adm/syserr. 
You can also use this option to access the default single-user errorlog
file 
/syserr.\fIhostname\fR.
Specify the full path name for the file.  Do not use the 
.B \-n 
option with this option.
.TP 1i
.B \-h
Displays a brief help message.  If you specify any other option
with the 
.B \-h
option, it is ignored. 
.TP 1i
.B \-H\fI\ host
Selects errors for the system indicated.  Use the 
.B \-H 
option when you are logging errors from multiple remote systems to a
single errorlog file on the local host.
.TP 1i
.B \-M\fI\ mainframe_errors
Selects mainframe error types.  If you do not specify any parameters,
all error types are reported.
.RS 1i
.IP \fBcpu\fR 7
Reports CPU-related errors such as machine checks.
.IP \fBmem\fR 7
Reports memory-related errors such as single-bit CRD (corrected read
data) and double-bit uncorrectable errors.
.RE
.TP 1i
.B \-n
Displays errors as they occur in real time before logging them
in the errorlog file.  This option is useful in monitoring errors 
while a disk or tape exerciser is run.  You cannot use this option 
with the \fB\-f\fR option.
.TP 1i
.B \-o\fI\| output
Outputs errors in brief, full, or terse format.  The default
output is brief.
.RS 1i
.IP \fBbrief\fR 7
Reports error information in a short format.
.br
.IP \fBfull\fR 7
Reports all available information for each entry.
.br
.IP \fBterse\fR 7
Reports error information and displays register values, but does not
translate.
.RE
.TP 1i
.B \-O\fI\| operating_system_events
Selects operating system events such as panics and exceptions and
faults.  If you do not specify any parameters, all ULTRIX operating
system events are reported.
.RS 1i
.IP \fBaef\fR 7 
Reports arithmetic exception faults
.IP \fBast\fR 7
Reports asynchronous trap exception faults
.IP \fBbpt\fR 7
Reports breakpoint instruction faults
.IP \fBcmp\fR 7
Reports compatibility mode faults
.IP \fBpag\fR 7
Reports page faults
.IP \fBpif\fR 7
Reports privileged instruction faults
.IP \fBpro\fR 7
Reports protection faults
.IP \fBptf\fR 7
Reports page table faults
.IP \fBraf\fR 7
Reports reserved address faults
.IP \fBrof\fR 7
Reports reserved operand faults
.IP \fBscf\fR 7
Reports system call exception faults
.IP \fBseg\fR 7
Reports segmentation faults
.IP \fBtra\fR 7
Reports trace exception faults
.IP \fBxfc\fR 7 
Reports xfc instruction faults
.RE
.TP 1i
.B \-R \fI\| reverse chronological order
Outputs selected error information in reverse chronological
order.
.TP 1i
.B \-r\fI\| records 
Reports errors for the selected record codes.  Valid codes
are: 
.RS 1i
.nf
Hardware-Detected Errors 
.sp 6p
100	machine check 
101	memory corrected read data/read data substitute (crd/rds) 
102	disk errors 
103	tape errors 
104	device controller errors 
105	adapter errors
106	bus errors
107	stray interrupts 
108	asynchronous write errors 
109	exceptions/faults 
.sp 6p
Software Detected Errors 
.sp 6p
200	panics (bug checks) 
.sp 6p
Informational ASCII Messages 
.sp 6p
250	informational 
251	8600/8650 snapshot taken 
.sp 6p
Operational Messages
.sp 6p
300	start up 
301	shutdown
310	time change 
350	diagnostic information 
.fi
.RE
.TP 1i
.B \-s\fI\| sequence_numbers
Reports errors for selected sequence numbers.  When used by
itself, this option will give all records with specified sequence
numbers in the file.
.TP 1i
.B \-t\fI\| time_range
Selects errors for the specified time range.  Without the
.B \-t 
option, the 
.I uerf 
command processes the errorlog file from beginning to end.  A
start date or time or an end date or time must be specified with the 
\fB\-t\fR option.  
For partial entries, default date is current date, default
start time is 00:00:00, and default end time is 23:59:59.
The format is:
.sp 6p
uerf -t s:dd-mmm-yyyy,hh:mm:ss e:dd-mmm-yyyy,hh:mm:ss
.RS 1i
.IP \fBs\fR 7 
Specifies the start date and time   
.IP \fBe\fR 7
Specifies the end date and time
.IP \fBdd\fR 7
day 
.IP \fBmmm\fR 7
month
.IP \fByyyy\fR 7
year
.IP \fBhh\fR 7
hour
.IP \fBmm\fR 7
minute
.IP \fBss\fR 7
second
.RE
.TP 1i
.B \-T\fI\| tapes
Selects the tmscp tape types, for example, tk50, or class, for example,
tk, for which to report errors.  If you do not specify any parameters,
all tape types are reported.  See 
.MS tms 4
for a list of supported tmscp tape types. 
.TP 1i
.B \-x
Excludes specified selection options from the report, whether they
appear before or after the 
. \-x 
option.  This option does not affect the 
.B \-n, 
.B \-f, 
or 
.B \-o 
options.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The uerf command searches for the data files, uerf.hlp and uerf.err 
in the /etc
directory, and checks all directories specified in your shell PATH 
environment variable.  
If uerf is invoked with a full pathname, the system first checks 
that directory for the uerf data files. 
.PP
The uerf command outputs the contents of the errorlog file in the
directory specified in /etc/elcsd.conf.  
To report on any other errorlog file, such as the single-user 
errorlog file, you must use uerf with the 
.B \-f 
option. 
.PP
Do not specify any other option with the 
.B \-h
option.
.PP
You cannot use the 
.B \-n 
option and the 
.B \-f
option together. 
.PP
Some hardware and system-related errors are logged as ASCII
informational messages; for example, MASSBUS device errors and UNIBUS
communication device errors.  To output these errors, use the 
.B -r 
option with record type 250.
.SH FILES
.ta 3i
/usr/adm/syserr/syserr.\fIsystem name\fR	multiuser default errorlog file
.br
/etc/uerf.err		uerf error message file
.br
/etc/uerf.hlp		uerf help file
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example produces a report containing all uba and
nmi errors:
.EX
uerf \-A uba,nmi
.EE
.PP
The following example produces a report containing all error
events excluding logged operating system errors and 
operator and maintenance class errors:
.EX
uerf -O -x -c oper,maint
.EE
.PP
The following produces an error report from the named file:
.EX
uerf -f /usr/adm/syslog/olderrorfile
.EE
.PP
The following examples show how to produce error reports for
specific record codes:
.EX
uerf -r 100,102

uerf -r 100-109
.EE
.PP 
The following examples show how to produce error reports using
the -t option.  The first example below lists all errors between 
10:47 a.m. on April 13, 1986 and 5:30 p.m. on April 20, 1986.
The second example below produces an error report for all logged
errors on the current day and year, which starts at 1:20 p.m. 
and ends at the current time.
.EX
uerf -t s:13-apr-1986,10:47:00 e:20-apr-1986,18:30:00

uerf -t s:13:20
.EE
.PP
The next example produces an error report for all logged errors
and displays it in reverse chronological order, starting with
the current date and time.
.EX
uerf -R
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
elcsd.conf(5), elcsd(8), eli(8)
.br
System Management Guide
