.TH uuaids 8c
.SH NAME
uucompact, uumkspool, uurespool  \- uucp administrative utilities
.SH SYNTAX
.B uucompact
-s\fIsystem\fP 
.PP
.B uumkspool
system(s)
.PP
.B uurespool
[ -t\fI#\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.ec |
All three of these commands are located in 
/usr/lib/uucp.
.ec
.PP
.ti 3
\fBUucompact.\fP
.PP
The
.PN uucompact
command
compacts uucp system spool directories and associated subdirectories. 
If \fIsystem\fP is \fBALL\fP, then all existing uucp system spool 
directories are compacted.  
Otherwise, only the specified \fIsystem\fP spool directory is
compacted.
If no \fIsystem\fP is specified, /usr\/spool\/uucp\/sys 
is compacted.
If 
.PN uucompact
is stopped before it is finished,
it can be restarted without reprocessing directories. 
The
.PN uucompact
command continues 
processing where it left off during it's previous instantiation.
.PP
.ti 3
.B Uumkspool.
.PP
For each of the specified systems 
.PN uumkspool
makes a per system spool directory and associated subdirectories.
For example, if \fIsystem\fP is \fBmk3\fP and if the local system name
is \fBpenny\fP,
the following directories are created:
.EX
/usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3
/usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3/C.
/usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3/X.
/usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3/D.
/usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3/D.penny
/usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3/D.penny
.EE
.B Uurespool.
.PP
The
.PN uurespool
command
moves files from old spool directories to  new spool
directories.
There are at least two instances where one will want to move spool files
to a new spool directory.
.IP 1.
Installing the current version of \fIuucp\fP. 
Because the structure of the spool directories has changed from older 
versions of \fIuucp\fP, it is necessary to respool old spooled files
to new spool directories.
.IP 2.
Creating a new per system spool directory.  
In this case, it is necessary to move files from 
.br
/usr/spool/uucp/sys/DEFAULT to the new spool directories.
To ease this task,
.PN uurespool
moves files that have been spooled
in one of 4 formats and respools them under the new spooling structure.
The format is specified by the \fB-t#\fP option.
\fB#\fP can be one of the following:
.RS
.IP 1) 
original - all files are in /usr/spool/uucp
.IP 2)
split spool -  contains the following subdirectories:
C., X., D., D.local, D.localX
.IP 3)
modified split spool - contains all subdirectories 
listed in 2) plus: STST., TM., C./OTHERS
.IP 4)
used when a new system directory has been created and
spool files must be moved from the DEFAULT directory
to the new system directory.
.RE
.SH FILES
/usr/spool/uucp - spool directory
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1), uucp (1c), uux(1c)
