./" Lasted edited by Jeff J. 6/19/86
.TH ypmake 8yp
.SH NAME
ypmake \- rebuild yellow pages database using the make command
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.B cd /etc/yp
.fi
.B make 
[ 
.I options 
] 
[
.I map
] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ypmake command"  ""  "\fLypmake\fP \(em rebuild yellow pages database"
.IX  "rebuild yellow pages database"  ""  "rebuild yellow pages database \(em \fLypmake\fP"
.IX  "yellow pages"  "rebuild database"  ""  "rebuild database \(em \fLypmake\fP"
The 
.B make
command uses the 
/etc/yp/Makefile
to build the yellow pages database.
With no arguments,
.B make
creates
.B dbm
databases for any YP maps that are out-of-date,
and then executes
yppush(8yp) 
to notify slave databases that there has been a change.
It is important to note that the
.B ypmake 
command should only be executed at a YP master server machine.  If it
is executed from either a slave server or a pure YP client machine, the
created changes will only be overwritten when the next YP master server
machine update, via
.I ypxfr, 
is performed. 
.LP
The 
.I options 
argument can be used to change the default values of
three special variables used by 
.B make:
DIR, NOPUSH, and DOM.
The DIR variable instructs 
.B make
to give the directory of the source files.
The NOPUSH variable, which when non-null, inhibits updating of the new data
base files using the
yppush(8yp)
function.
The DOM variable, instructs
.B make 
to construct a domain
other than the master's default domain.
The default for DIR is
/etc,
and the default for NOPUSH is
the null string.
To change the default values of these special variables, an 
.I options
argument format of 
.I special_variable = value
is used.  An example is provided under the
.B EXAMPLE
heading.
.LP
The
.I map
argument supplied on the command line instructs
.B make
to update only the specified map.
The specified maps are those located at
/etc/yp/{domain},
where 
.I {domain} 
is the Yellow Pages domain name.
Some typical entries for the
.I map 
argument are passwd, hosts, and networks.
Typing:
.I "make passwd"
causes
.B make 
to create and, assuming it is out of date, to update
the YP password database.
The 
.B make
command updates the password data base using 
yppush(8yp).
Likewise, typing 
.I make host
or
.I make networks
causes 
.B make 
to create and to update
the host and network files,
/etc/hosts
and
/etc/networks 
respectively.
.LP
See
ypfiles(5yp)
and
ypserv(8yp)
for an overview of the yellow pages.
.bp
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
    make DOM=NewDomain passwd
.fi
.LP
This example causes 
.B make 
to create a password yellow pages map for the domain
.I NewDomain
instead of for the default domain.
.SH SEE ALSO
make(1), makedbm(8yp), ypserv(8yp), yppush(8yp)
