./" Last edited by Jeff J. 6/24/86
.TH yppasswdd 8yp
.SH NAME
yppasswdd \- server daemon for modifying the Yellow Pages password file
.SH SYNTAX
.B /usr/etc/rpc.yppasswdd
file [
.B \-m
arg1 arg2 ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "yypasswdd command"  ""  "\fLyppasswdd\fP \(em yellow pages password server"
.IX  servers  yppasswdd  ""  "\fLyppasswdd\fP \(em yellow pages password server"
The
.PN yppasswdd
daemon is a server that handles password change requests from
.PN yppasswd(1yp).
It changes a password entry in the specified
.I file,
which is assumed to be in the same format described in
.PN passwd(5yp).
An entry in
.I file
will be changed only if the password presented by
.PN yppasswd(1yp)
matches the encrypted password of that entry.
.LP
If the
.B \-m
option is given, then after
.I file
is modified, a
.PN make(1)
will be performed in
.PN /etc/yp.
Any arguments following the flag will be passed to
.PN make.
The 
.B -m
option should be set only at a YP master server machine.
.LP
This server is not run by default, nor can it be started up from
.PN inetd(8c).
If it is desired to enable remote password updating for the Yellow Pages,
then an entry for
.PN yppasswdd
should be put in the
.PN /etc/rc
file of the host serving as the master for the Yellow Pages
.PN passwd
file.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
If the Yellow Pages password file is stored as
.PN /etc/yp/src/passwd,
then to have password changes propagated immediately,
the server should be invoked as
.LP
/usr/etc/rpc.yppasswdd /etc/yp/src/passwd 
.B \-m 
.I passwd 
.B DIR=
/etc/yp/src
.SH FILES
/etc/yp/Makefile
.SH SEE ALSO
yppasswd(1yp), passwd(5yp), ypfiles(5yp), ypmake(8yp)
