.TH atof 3 dc 
.\" Last modified by BAM on 8-Aug-85  1300  
.\"
.SH NAME
atof, atoi, atol, strtol, strtod \- convert ASCII to numbers
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.B double atof(nptr)
.B char *nptr;
.PP
.B atoi(nptr)
.B char *nptr;
.PP
.B long atol(nptr)
.B char *nptr;
.PP
.B strtol(nptr, eptr, base)
.B char *nptr, **eptr;
.B int base;
.PP
.B double strtod (nptr, eptr)
.B char *nptr, **eptr;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions convert a string pointed to by
.I nptr
to floating, integer, and long integer representation respectively.
The first unrecognized character ends the string.
.PP
The
.PN atof
function recognizes an optional string of spaces, 
then an optional sign, then
a string of digits optionally containing a decimal
point, then an optional `e' or `E' followed by an 
optionally signed integer.
.PP
The
.PN atoi
and
.PN atol
functions recognize an optional string of spaces, 
then an optional sign, then a
string of digits.
.PP
The
.PN strtol
function
returns as a long integer, the value represented by the 
character string
.I nstr.
The string is scanned up to the first character
inconsistent with the base.  Leading white-space
characters are ignored.
.PP
If the value of 
.I eptr
is not (char **) NULL, a pointer to the 
character terminating the scan is returned in
.I **eptr. 
If no integer can be formed, 
.I **eptr
 is set to 
.I nstr,
and zero is returned.
.PP
If \fIbase\fP is positive and not greater than 36,
it is used as the base for conversion.  After an
optional leading sign, leading zeros are ignored,
and "0x" or "0X" is ignored if \fIbase\fP is 16.
.PP
If \fIbase\fP is zero, the string itself determines 
the base thus:  After an optional leading sign, a
leading zero indicates octal conversion, and a 
leading "0x" or "0X" hexadecimal conversion.
Otherwise, decimal conversion is used.
.PP
Truncation from long to int can take place upon 
assignment, or by an explicit cast.
.PP
The
.PN strtod
function returns as a double-precision floating point number,
the value represented by the character string pointed to by
.I nptr.
The string is scanned up to the first unrecognized character.
.PP
The
.PN strtod 
function recognizes an optional string of white-space characters,
as defined by \fIisspace\fP is ctype(3), then
a string of digits optionally containing a decimal point,
then an optional sign, then a string of digits
optionally containing a decimal point, then an optional
.B e
or
.B E
followed by an optional sign or space, followed by an integer.
.PP
If the value if
.I eptr
is not (char **)NULL, a pointer to the character
terminating the scan is returned in the location pointed to by
.I eptr.
If no number can be formed, \fI*eptr\fP is set to \fInptr\fP,
and zero is returned.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN atof
function returns 
.B HUGE
if an overflow occurs, and a 0 value if an
underflow occurs.
.PP
The
.PN strtod
function returns 
.B HUGE
(according to the sign of the value), if the 
correct value would cause overflow, and 
.I errno
is set to 
.B ERANGE.
.PP
If the correct value would cause underflow, zero 
is returned and
.I errno
is set to 
.B ERANGE.
.SH SEE ALSO
scanf(3s)
