.TH exp 3m 
.SH NAME
exp, expm1, log, log10, log1p, pow, sqrt \- exponential, logarithm, power, square root
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.B double exp(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double expm1(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double log(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double log10(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double log1p(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double pow(x, y)
.B double x, y;
.PP
.B double sqrt(x)
.B double x;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN exp
function returns the exponential function of 
.I x.
.PP
The
.PN expm1 
function
returns exp(x)-1 accurately even for tiny 
.IR x .
.PP
The
.PN log
function returns the natural logarithm of 
.IR x ;
.PN log10
returns the base 10 logarithm.
.PP
The
.PN log1p
function returns log(1+x) accurately even for tiny
.IR x .
.PP
The
.PN pow
function returns
.I  x\u\s8y\s10\d.
.PP
The
.PN sqrt
function returns the square root of 
.I x.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
When your program is compiled using the System V environment,
.PN exp
returns \fBHUGE\fP when the correct value would overflow, 
and sets \fIerrno\fP to \fBERANGE\fP.
.PP
The
.PN log 
and 
.PN log10
functions return \fBHUGE\fP and set \fIerrno\fP to \fBEDOM\fP
when 
.I x
is non-positive.  An error message is printed on the standard error output.
.PP
The
.PN pow
function returns 0 and sets \fIerrno\fP to EDOM when 
.I x
is non-positive and y is not an integer, or when
.I x
and
.I y
are both zero.  In these cases, a message indicating
DOMAIN error is printed on the standard error output.
When the correct value for 
.PN pow
would overflow, 
.PN pow
returns HUGE and sets \fIerrno\fP to ERANGE.
.PP
The
.PN sqrt
function returns 0 and sets \fIerrno\fP to \fBEDOM\fP when 
.I x 
is negative.  A message indicating DOMAIN error is 
printed on the standard error output.
.PP
These error-handling procedures may be changed with 
the function
matherr(3m).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN exp,
.PN expm1,
and
.PN pow
functions return a huge value when the correct value would overflow;
.I errno
is set to ERANGE.
The function
.PN pow
returns 0 and sets
.I errno
to EDOM when the second argument is negative and non-integral and
when both arguments are 0.
.PP
The
.PN log
function returns 0 
when
.I x
is zero or negative;
.I errno
is set to EDOM.
The
.PN log1p
function returns 0 
when
.I x
is less than or equal to -1;
.I errno 
is set to EDOM.
.PP
The
.PN sqrt
function returns 0 when 
.I x
is negative;
.I errno
is set to EDOM.
.SH SEE ALSO
hypot(3m), intro(3m), sinh(3m)
