.\" Last modified by MJT on 3-Jul-86  0859
.\"  Merged RR/Jenkins changes with latest library version (Belman changes)
.\"
.TH getfsent 3x
.SH NAME
getfsent, getfsspec, getfsfile, getfstype, setfsent, endfsent \- get file system descriptor file entry
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.B #include <fstab.h>
.B #include "/usr/include/sys/fs_types.h"
.PP
.B struct fstab *getfsent()
.PP
.B struct fstab *getfsspec(spec)
.B char *spec;
.PP
.B struct fstab *getfsfile(file)
.B char *file;
.PP
.B struct fstab *getfstype(type)
.B char *type;
.PP
.B int setfsent()
.PP
.B int endfsent()
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
All routines operate on the file /etc/fstab, which contains
descriptions of the known file systems.
The routine
.PN setfsent
opens this file.  The routine
.PN getfsent
reads the next file system description 
within /etc/fstab opening the file
if necessary.  
The
.PN endfsent 
routine
closes the file.
.PP
The
.PN getfsspec,
.PN getfsfile,
and
.PN getfstype
routines
sequentially scan the file /etc/fstab for specific file 
system descriptions.  
The
.PN getfsspec
routine searches for a description 
with a matching special file name field. 
The routine
.PN getfsfile
searches for a description 
with a matching file system path prefix field.
The routine
.PN getfstype
searches for a description with a matching file system type field.
.PP
The
.PN getfsent,
.PN getfsspec,
.PN getfstype, 
and
.PN getfsfile
each
return a pointer to a representation of the description they have
matched or read.
Representations are in the format of the following structure:
.EX
#define	FSTAB_RW	"rw"	/* read-write device      */
#define	FSTAB_RO	"ro"	/* read-only device       */
#define	FSTAB_RQ	"rq"	/* read-write with quotas */
#define	FSTAB_SW	"sw"	/* swap device            */
#define	FSTAB_XX	"xx"	/* ignore totally         */

struct fstab {
	char	*fs_spec;	/* block special device name    */
	char	*fs_file;	/* file system path prefix      */
	char	*fs_type;	/* rw,ro,sw or xx               */
	int	fs_freq;	/* dump frequency, in days      */
	int	fs_passno;	/* pass number on parallel dump */
	char	*fs_name;	/* name of the file system type */
	char	*fs_opts	/* arbitrary options field      */
};
.EE
.PP
A NULL or 0 is returned, but 
.I errno
is not set
on detection of errors.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
All descriptions are contained in
static areas, which should be copied. 
.SH FILES
.TP 15
/etc/fstab
File system information file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fstab(5)
