.TH getnetgrent 3yp
./" Last edited by Jeff J. 6/18/86
.SH NAME
getnetgrent, setnetgrent, endnetgrent, innetgr \- get network group entry
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
innetgr(netgroup, machine, user, domain)
char *netgroup, *machine, *user, *domain;
.sp.5
setnetgrent(netgroup)
char *netgroup
.sp.5
endnetgrent()
.sp.5
getnetgrent(machinep, userp, domainp)
char **machinep, **userp, **domainp;
.fi
.IX  "get network group entry"
.IX  "set network group entry"
.IX  "network group entry"  get
.IX  "group entry"  "get network"
.IX  "getnetgrent function"  ""  "\fLgetnetgrent\fP \(em get network group entry"
.IX  "setnetgrent function"  ""  "\fLsetnetgrent\fP \(em get network group entry"
.IX  "endnetgrent function"  ""  "\fLendnetgrent\fP \(em get network group entry"
.IX  "innetgr function"  ""  "\fLinnetgr\fP \(em get network group entry"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.PN innetgr
routine accesses the
.PN netgroup
file and checks to see if the specified input parameters match an entry in the
file.
The routine
returns 1 if it matches an entry, or 0 if it does not.
Any of the three strings; 
.B machine, 
.B user, 
or 
.B domain 
can be NULL, which signifies any string in that position is valid.
.PP
The 
.PN getnetgrent 
routine returns the next member of a network group.  After the call,
.PN machinep 
will contain a pointer to a string containing the name
of the machine part of the network group member, and similarly
for 
.B userp 
and 
.B domainp.
If 
.B machinep, 
.B userp 
or 
.B domainp 
is 
returned as a NULL pointer, it signifies any string is valid.
The getnetgrent routine allocates space for the name
by using the
.PN malloc 
routine.
This space is released when a endnetgrent
call is made.
The getnetgrent routine returns 1 if it succeeds in obtaining another
member of the network group, or 0 if it reaches the
end of the group.
.PP
The 
.PN setnetgrent
routine establishes the network group from which getnetgrent will
obtain members, and also restarts calls to getnetgrent
from the beginning of the list.  If the previous setnetgrent
call was to a different network group, a endnetgrent call is
implied.
.PP
The
.PN endnetgrent
routine releases the space allocated during the getnetgrent calls.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/netgroup
/etc/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup
/etc/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup.byuser
/etc/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup.byhost
.fi
