.TH getnetent 3n
.SH NAME
getnetent, getnetbyaddr, getnetbyname, setnetent, endnetent \- get network entry
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
#include <netdb.h>
.PP
.ft B
struct netent *getnetent()
.PP
.ft B
struct netent *getnetbyname(name)
char *name;
.PP
.ft B
struct netent *getnetbyaddr(net, type)
long net; int type;
.PP
.ft B
setnetent(stayopen)
int stayopen
.PP
.ft B
endnetent()
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN getnetent ,
.PN getnetbyname ,
and
.PN getnetbyaddr
subroutines
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the network data base, /etc/networks.
.EX
struct	netent {
	char	*n_name;	/* official name of net */
	char	**n_aliases;	/* alias list */
	int	n_addrtype;	/* net number type */
	long	n_net;		/* net number */
};
.EE
.PP
The members of this structure are:
.TP \w'n_addrtype'u+2n
n_name
The official name of the network.
.TP \w'n_addrtype'u+2n
n_aliases
A zero terminated list of alternate names for the network.
.TP \w'n_addrtype'u+2n
n_addrtype
The type of the network number returned: AF_INET.
.TP \w'n_addrtype'u+2n
n_net
The network number.  Network numbers are returned in machine byte
order.
.PP
The
.PN getnetent
subroutine
reads the next line of the file, opening the file if necessary.
.PP
The
.PN setnetent
subroutine
opens and rewinds the file.  If the
.I stayopen
flag is non-zero,
the net data base will not be closed after each call to 
.PN getnetent
(either directly, or indirectly through one of
the other \*(lqgetnet\*(rq calls).
.PP
The
.PN endnetent
subroutine closes the file.
.PP
The
.PN getnetbyname
subroutine
sequentially searches from the beginning
of the file until a matching
net name 
is found,
or until EOF is encountered.
.PP
The
.PN getnetbyaddr
subroutine
sequentially searches from the beginning of the
file until a matching net number is found.  The
type must be AF_INET.
.PP
Network numbers are supplied in host order.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.  Only Internet network
numbers are currently understood.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Null pointer
(0) returned on EOF or error.
.SH FILES
/etc/networks
.SH "SEE ALSO"
networks(5)
