.TH getprotoent 3n
.SH NAME
getprotoent, getprotobynumber, getprotobyname, setprotoent, endprotoent \- get protocol entry
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.ft B
.B #include <netdb.h>
.PP
.ft B
struct protoent *getprotoent()
.PP
.ft B
struct protoent *getprotobyname(name)
char *name;
.PP
.ft B
struct protoent *getprotobynumber(proto)
int proto;
.PP
.ft B
setprotoent(stayopen)
int stayopen
.PP
.ft B
endprotoent()
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN getprotoent ,
.PN getprotobyname ,
and
.PN getprotobynumber
subroutines
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the network protocol data base,
/etc/protocols.
.EX
struct	protoent {
	char	*p_name;	/* official name of protocol */
	char	**p_aliases;	/* alias list */
	long	p_proto;	/* protocol number */
};
.EE
.PP
The members of this structure are:
.TP \w'p_aliases'u+2n
p_name
The official name of the protocol.
.TP \w'p_aliases'u+2n
p_aliases
A zero terminated list of alternate names for the protocol.
.TP \w'p_aliases'u+2n
p_proto
The protocol number.
.PP
The
.PN getprotoent
subroutine
reads the next line of the file, opening the file if necessary.
.PP
The
.PN setprotoent
opens and rewinds the file.  If the
.I stayopen
flag is non-zero,
the net data base will not be closed after each call to 
.PN getprotoent
(either directly, or indirectly through one of
the other \*(lqgetproto\*(rq calls).
.PP
The
.PN endprotoent
subroutine closes the file.
.PP
The
.PN getprotobyname
and
.PN getprotobynumber
subroutines sequentially search from the beginning
of the file until a matching
protocol name or
protocol number is found,
or until EOF is encountered.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.  Only the Internet
protocols are currently understood.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Null pointer
(0) returned on EOF or error.
.SH FILES
/etc/protocols
.SH "SEE ALSO"
protocols(5)
