.TH intro 3
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to library functions
.SH DESCRIPTION
This section describes functions that may be found
in various libraries.  The library functions are those other than the
functions that directly invoke ULTRIX system primitives,
described in section 2.
Section 3 has the libraries physically grouped together.  
The functions described in this
section are grouped into various libraries:
.SH Sections 3 and 3s
The (3) functions are the standard C library functions.  The
C library also includes all the functions described in Section 2.  
These routines are
included for compatibility with other systems.  In particular,
a number of system call interfaces provided in 
4.2BSD have been included for source code compatibility.
The (3s) functions comprise the standard I/O library.  Together with the
(3n), (3x), and (3) routines, these functions constitute
library \fIlibc\fP,
which is automatically loaded by the C compiler
(cc), the Pascal compiler (pc), and the Fortran compiler
(f77).
Declarations for these functions may be obtained from
the include file, < stdio.h >.
The link editor ld(1)
searches this library under the \-lc option.
Declarations for some of these functions may be obtained
from include files indicated on the appropriate pages.
.PP
The GFLOAT version of
.I libc
is used when you use the cc(1) command with the
.B \-Mg
option, or you use the ld(1) command with the
.B \-lcg
option.  
The GFLOAT version of
.IR libc
must be used with modules 
compiled with cc(1)
using the 
.B \-Mg
option. 
.PP
Note that neither the compiler nor the linker ld(1)
can detect when mixed double floating point types are used,
and your program may produce erroneous results if this occurs.  .\"End
.SH Section 3f
The 3f functions are all functions callable from Fortran.  These
functions perform the same jobs as do the (3) functions.
.SH Section 3m
These functions constitute the math library,
.IR libm .
They are automatically loaded as needed by the Pascal
compiler (pc)
and the Fortran compiler (f77).
The link editor searches this library under the 
.B \-lm 
option.  Declarations for these functions 
may be obtained from the include file, < math.h >.
.PP
The GFLOAT version of
.IR libm
is used when you use the ld(1) command with the
.B \-lcg
option. Note that you must use
the GFLOAT version of
.IR libm
with modules compiled using the cc(1)
command with the
.B \-Mg
option. 
.PP
Note that neither the compiler nor the linker ld(1)
can detect when mixed double floating point
types are used, and the program may produce
erroneous results if this occurs.	.\" End
.SH Section 3n
These functions constitute the internet network library,
.SH Section 3x
Various specialized libraries have not been given distinctive captions.
Files in which such libraries are found are named on appropriate pages.
.SH Section 3yp
These functions are specific to the Yellow Pages (YP) service.
.SH SYSTEM V COMPATIBILITY
The libraries in Sections 3, 3m, and 3s contain System V
compatibility features that are available to general ULTRIX
programs.  This compatibility sometimes conflicts with
features already present in ULTRIX.  That is, the function
performed may be slightly different in the System V environment.
These features are provided for applications that are being
ported from System V.
.PP
The descriptions in these sections include an ENVIRONMENT
section to describe any differences in function between
System V and the standard C runtime library.
.PP
The System V compatibility features are not contained in the
standard C runtime library.  To get System V-specific behavior,
you must specify that the System V environment is to be used in
compiling and linking programs.  You can do this in one of two
ways:
.IP 
Using the \fB\-Y\fR option for the 
.PN cc
command.
.IP 
Globally setting the environment variable PROG_ENV to SYSTEM_FIVE.
If you are using the C shell, you would execute the following line,
or include it in your .login file:
.EX
setenv PROG_ENV SYSTEM_FIVE
.EE
If you are using the Bourne shell, you would execute the following
line, or include it in your .profile file:
.EX
PROG_ENV=SYSTEM_FIVE ; export PROG_ENV
.EE
.PP
In both cases, the cc(1)
command defines the preprocessor symbol SYSTEM_FIVE, so that the
C preprocessor, /lib/cpp, 
will select the System V version of various data structures
and symbol definitions.
.PP
In addition, if cc(1) invokes ld(1), the library libcV.a 
(the System V version of the Standard C library) is searched before
libc.a to resolve references to the
System-V-specific routines.  Also, if
\fB\-lm\fR is specified on either the cc(1) or the
ld(1) command line, then the
System V version of the math
library will be used instead of the regular ULTRIX math library.
.SH FILES
.nf
/lib/libc.a
/usr/lib/lib_cg.a
/usr/lib/libm.a 			.\" Begin
/usr/lib/libc_p.a
/usr/lib/m_g.a				.\" End
/usr/lib/libm_p.a
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Functions in the math library (3m) may return
conventional values when the function is undefined for the
given arguments or when the value is not representable.
In these cases the external variable
.I errno
is set to the value EDOM (domain error) or ERANGE (range error).
For further information, see intro(2).
The values of EDOM and ERANGE are defined in the include file
< math.h >.
.SH SEE ALSO
cc(1), f77(1), ld(1), nm(1), intro(2)
intro(3), intro(3s), intro(3f), intro(3m), intro(3n)
