.TH regex 3
.SH NAME
re_comp, re_exec \- regular expression handler
.SH SYNTAX
.B char *re_comp(s)
.br
.B char *s;
.PP
.B re_exec(s)
.br
.B char *s;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN re_comp
subroutine
compiles a string into an internal form suitable for pattern matching. 
The
.PN re_exec 
subroutine
checks the argument string against the last string passed to
.PN re_comp.
.PP
The
.PN re_comp
subroutine
returns 0 if the string
.I s
was compiled successfully; otherwise a string containing an
error message is returned. If 
.I re_comp
is passed 0 or a null string, it returns without changing the currently
compiled regular expression.
.PP
The
.PN re_exec
subroutine returns 1 if the string
.I s
matches the last compiled regular expression, 0 if the string
.I s
failed to match the last compiled
regular expression, and \-1 if the compiled
regular expression was invalid (indicating an internal error).
.PP
The strings passed to both
.PN re_comp
and
.PN re_exec
may have trailing or embedded newline characters; 
they are terminated by nulls.
The regular expressions recognized
are described in the manual entry for 
ed(1),
given the above difference.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.PN re_exec
subroutine returns \-1 for an internal error.
.PP
The
.PN re_comp
subroutine
returns one of the following strings if an error occurs:
.PP
.nf
.in +0.5i
\fINo previous regular expression,
Regular expression too long,
unmatched \e(,
missing ],
too many \e(\e) pairs,
unmatched \e).\fP
.in -0.5i
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ed(1), ex(1), egrep(1), fgrep(1), grep(1)
