.\"   Converted from System V 2.2 source
.\"
.TH scanf 3s
.SH NAME
scanf, fscanf, sscanf \- convert formatted input
.SH SYNTAX
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.B int scanf (format
[
.B ,
pointer ] .\|.\|.
.B )
.br
.B char \(**format;
.PP
.B int fscanf (stream, format
[
.B ,
pointer ] .\|.\|.
.B )
.br
.SM
.B FILE
.B \(**stream;
.br
.B char \(**format;
.PP
.B int sscanf (s, format
[
.B ,
pointer ] .\|.\|.
.B )
.br
.B char \(**s, \(**format;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN scanf
subroutine reads from the standard input stream
.IR stdin .
The
.PN fscanf
subroutine reads from the named input
.IR stream .
The
.B sscanf\^
subroutine reads from the character string
.IR s .
Each function reads characters, interprets
them according to a format, and stores the results in its arguments.
Each expects, as arguments, a control string
.I format\^
described below, and a set of
.I pointer\^
arguments
indicating where the converted input should be stored.
.PP
The control string usually contains conversion specifications,
which are used to direct interpretation of input sequences.
The control string may contain:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 3
White-space characters (blanks, tabs, new-lines, or form-feeds)
which, except in two cases described below,
cause input to be read up to the next
non-white-space character.
.TP
An ordinary character (not
.BR % ),
which must match the next character of the input stream.
.TP
Conversion specifications, consisting of the character
.BR % ,
an optional assignment suppressing character
.BR \(** ,
an optional numerical maximum field width, an optional
.BR l " (ell) or " h
indicating the size of the receiving variable, and a conversion code.
.PD
.PP
A conversion specification directs the conversion of the next input
field; the result is placed in the variable pointed to by the
corresponding argument, unless assignment suppression was indicated by
.BR \(** .
The suppression of assignment provides a way of describing an
input field which is to be skipped.
An input field is defined as a string of non-space characters;
it extends to the next inappropriate character or until the field
width, if specified, is exhausted.
For all descriptors except ``['' and ``c'',
white space leading an input field is ignored.
.PP
The conversion code indicates the interpretation of the
input field.  The corresponding pointer argument must
usually be of a restricted type.
For a suppressed field, no pointer argument is given.
The following conversion codes are legal:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.B %
A single
.B %
is expected in the input at this point; no assignment is done.
.TP
.B d
A decimal integer is expected;
the corresponding argument should be an integer pointer.
.TP
.B u
An unsigned decimal integer is expected.
The corresponding argument should be an unsigned integer pointer.
.TP
.B o
An octal integer is expected.
The corresponding argument should be an integer pointer.
.TP
.B x
A hexadecimal integer is expected.
The corresponding argument should be an integer pointer.
.TP
\f3e\fP,\f3f\fP,\f3g\fP
A floating point number is expected.
The next field is converted accordingly and stored through the
corresponding argument, which should be a pointer to a
.IR float .
The input format for floating point numbers is an optionally signed
string of digits, possibly containing a decimal point, followed by
an optional exponent field consisting of an
.B E
or an
.BR e ,
followed by an optional \(pl, \-, or space, followed by an integer.
.TP
.B s
a character string is expected; the corresponding argument should be
a character pointer pointing to an array of characters large enough
to accept the string and a terminating
.BR \e0 ,
which will be added automatically.
The input field is terminated by a white-space character.
.TP
.B c
a character is expected; the
corresponding argument should be a character pointer.
The normal skip over white space is suppressed in this case;
to read the next non-space character, use
.BR %1s .
If a field width is given, the corresponding argument
should refer to a character array; the
indicated number of characters is read.
.TP
.B [
indicates string data and the normal skip over leading white space
is suppressed.  The left bracket is followed by a set of characters,
which we will call the
.IR scanset,
and a right bracket; the input field is the maximal
sequence of input characters consisting entirely of
characters in the scanset.
The circumflex
.RB ( \|^\| ),
when it appears as the first character in the scanset,
serves as a complement operator and redefines the scanset as
the set of all characters
.IR not
contained in the remainder of the scanset string.
There are some conventions used in the construction of the scanset.
A range of characters may be represented by the construct
.IR first\-last ,
thus [0123456789] may be expressed [0\-9].  Using this convention,
.IR first
must be lexically less than or equal to
.IR last ,
or else the dash will stand for itself.  The dash will also stand for
itself whenever it is the first or the last character in the scanset.
To include the right square bracket as an element of the scanset,
it must appear as the first character (possibly preceded by a
circumflex) of the scanset, and in this case it will not
be syntactically interpreted as the closing bracket.
The corresponding argument must point to a character array large
enough to hold the data field and the terminating
.BR \e0 ,
which will be added automatically.
At least one character must match
for this conversion to be considered successful.
.PD
.PP
The conversion characters
.BR d ,
.BR u ,
.BR o ,
and
.B x
may be capitalized or preceded by
.B l
or
.B h
to indicate that a pointer to
.B long
or to
.B short
rather than to
.B int
is in the argument list.  Similarly, the conversion characters
.BR e ,
.BR f ,
and
.BR g
may be capitalized or preceded by
.B l
to indicate that a pointer to
.B double
rather than to
.B float
is in the argument list.
The
.BR l " or " h
modifier is ignored for other conversion characters.
.PP
The
.Pn scanf
subroutine conversion terminates at EOF,
at the end of the control string,
or when an input character conflicts with
the control string.
In the latter case, the offending character
is left unread in the input stream.
.PP
The
.PN scanf
subroutine returns the number of successfully matched
and assigned input items; this number can be zero
in the event of an early conflict between an input
character and the control string.
If the input ends before the first conflict or conversion, EOF
is returned.
.SH EXAMPLES
The call:
.PP
.RS
int \|i, \|n; \|float \|x; \|char \|name[50];
.br
n = scanf\|("%d%f%s", \|&i, \|&x, \|name);
.RE
.PP
with the input line:
.PP
.RS
25 \|54.32E\(mi1 \|thompson
.RE
.PP
will assign to
.I n\^
the value
.BR 3 ,
to
.I i\^
the value
.BR 25 ,
to
.I x\^
the value
.BR 5.432 ,
and
.I name\^
will contain
.BR thompson\e0 .
Or:
.PP
.RS
int \|i; \|float \|x; \|char \|name[50];
.br
(void) scanf\|("%2d%f%\(**d %[0\-9]", \|&i, \|&x, \|name);
.RE
.PP
with input:
.PP
.RS
56789 \|0123 \|56a72
.RE
.PP
will assign
.B 56
to
.IR i ,
.B 789.0
to
.IR x ,
skip
.BR 0123 ,
and place the string
.B 56\e0
in
.IR name .
The next call to
.B getchar
will return
.BR a .
For further information, see getc(3s).
.SH NOTE
Trailing white space (including a new-line)
is left unread unless matched in the control string.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The success of literal matches and suppressed
assignments is not directly
determinable.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
These
functions return EOF on end of input
and a short count for missing or illegal data items.
.SH SEE ALSO
atof(3) getc(3s), printf(3s) 
