.TH sin 3m 
.\" Last modified by BAM on 5-Dec-1985 1300.
.\"
.\" Last modified by BAM on 8-Aug-85  1100  
.\"
.SH NAME
sin, cos, tan, asin, acos, atan, atan2 \- trigonometric functions
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.B double sin(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double cos(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double tan(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double asin(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double acos(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double atan(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double atan2(x, y)
.B double x, y;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The subroutines
.PN sin, cos
and
.PN tan,
return trigonometric functions of radian arguments.
The magnitude of the argument should be checked
by the caller to make sure the result is meaningful.
.PP
The 
.PN asin
subroutine returns the arc sin in the range \-\(*p/2 to \(*p/2.
.PP
The 
.PN acos
subroutine returns the arc cosine in the range 0 to \(*p.
.PP
The 
.PN atan
subroutine returns the arc tangent of
.I x
in the range \-\(*p/2 to \(*p/2.
.PP
The 
.PN atan2
subroutine returns the arc tangent of
.I x/y
in the range \-\(*p to \(*p.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
When your program is compiled using the System V environment,
.PN sin, cos
and
.PN tan
lose accuracy when their argument is far from zero.
For arguments sufficiently large, these functions return 0
when there would otherwise be a complete loss of significance.
In this case a message indicating TLOSS error is printed
on the standard error output.  For less extreme arguments, a
PLOSS error is generated but no message is printed.  In 
both cases, \fIerrno\fP is set to ERANGE.
.PP
The
.PN tan
subroutine returns HUGE for
an argument which is near an odd multiple of 
\(*p/2 when the correct value would overflow, and sets 
.I errno
to BERANGE.
.PP
Arguments of magnitude greater than 1.0 cause
.PN asin
and 
.PN acos 
to return 0 and to set 
.I errno
to EDOM.  In addition, a message indicating DOMAIN
error is printed on the standard error output.
.PP
These error-handling procedures may be changed with the function
matherr(3m).
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The value of
.PN tan
for arguments greater than about 2**31 is unreliable.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Arguments of magnitude greater than 1 cause
.PN asin
and
.PN acos
to return value 0;
.I errno
is set to EDOM.  The value of
.PN tan
at its singular points is a huge number, and
.I errno
is set to ERANGE.
