.TH environ 7
.SH NAME
environ \- user environment
.SH SYNTAX
.B extern char **environ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.NXR "environ macro package"
An array of strings, called the environment, is made available by
execve(2)
when a process begins.  By convention these strings have the form
.RI ` name = value '.
The following names are used by various commands:
.TP "\w'TERMCAP 'u"
PATH
The sequence of directory prefixes that
sh(1), time(1), and nice(1)
apply in searching for a file known by an incomplete path name.
The prefixes are separated by a colon(:).
The login(1)
command sets PATH=:/usr/ucb:/bin:/usr/bin.
.TP
HOME
A user's login directory, set by
.PN login
from the password file passwd(5).
.TP
TERM
The kind of terminal for which output is to be prepared.
This information is used by commands, such as nroff(1)
or plot(1g),
which may exploit special terminal capabilities.  See /etc/termcap
in termcap(5)
for a list of terminal types.
.TP
SHELL
The file name of the users login shell.
.TP
TERMCAP
The string describing the terminal in TERM,
or the name of the termcap file.  For further information, see
termcap(5), termcap(3x).
.TP
EXINIT
A startup list of commands read by ex(1), edit(1), and vi(1).
.TP
USER
The login name of the user.
.TP
PRINTER
The name of the default printer to be used by lpr(1), lpq(1),
and lprm(1).
.PP
Further names may be placed in the environment by the
.PN export
command and `name=value' arguments in sh(1), or by the
.PN setenv
command if you use csh(1).
Arguments may also be placed in the environment at the point of an
execve(2).
It is unwise to conflict with certain sh(1)
variables that are frequently exported by `.profile' files:
MAIL, PS1, PS2, IFS.
.SH SEE ALSO
csh(1), ex(1), login(1), sh(1), execve(2), system(3), termcap(3x),
termcap(5)
