.TH man 7
.SH NAME
man \- macros to typeset manual
.SH SYNTAX
.B
nroff  \-man\ 
file ...
.PP
.B
troff  \-man\ 
file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.NXCM "man command" "man macro package"
.NXB "man macro package"
These macros are used to lay out pages of this manual.
.PP
Any text argument
.I t
may be zero to six words.
Quotes may be used to include blanks in a `word'.
If 
.I text
is empty,
the special treatment is applied to
the next input line with text to be printed.
In this way
.BR . I
may be used to italicize a whole line, or
.BR . SM
followed by
.BR . B
to make small bold letters.
.PP
A prevailing indent distance is remembered between
successive indented paragraphs,
and is reset to default value upon reaching a non-indented paragraph.
Default units for indents
.I i
are ens.
.PP
Type font and size are reset to default values
before each paragraph, and after processing
font and size setting macros.
.PP
These strings are predefined by
.BR \-man :
.IP \e*R
.if t `\*R', `(Reg)' in
.if t .I nroff.
.if n `(Reg)', trademark symbol in
.if n .I troff.
.IP \e*S
Change to default type size.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Relative indents don't nest.
.SH REQUESTS
.NXB(t) "man maco package" "requests"
.\".ta \w'.TH n c x v m'u +\w'Cause 'u +\w'Argument\ 'u
.TS
l l l lw(3i).
Request	Causes	If no	Explanation
	Break	Argument
\&.B \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR\^=\^n.t.l.*	Text \fIt\fR is bold.
\&.BI \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR\^=\^n.t.l.	T{
Join words of \fIt\fR alternating bold and italic.
T}
\&.BR \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR\^=\^n.t.l.	T{
Join words of \fIt\fR alternating bold and Roman.
T}
\&.DT	no	.5i 1i\|...	Restore default tabs
\&.HP \fIi\fR	no	\fIi\fR\^=\^p.i.	T{
Set prevailing indent to \fIi\fR.
Begin paragraph with hanging indent.
T}
\&.I \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR\^=\^n.t.l.*	Text \fIt\fR is italic.
\&.IB \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR\^=\^n.t.l.	T{
Join words of \fIt\fR alternating italic and bold.
T}
\&.IP \fIx i\fR	yes	\fIx\fR\^=\^"\|"	T{
Same as .TP with tag \fIx\fR.
T}
\&.IR \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR\^=\^n.t.l.	T{
Join words of \fIt\fR alternating italic and Roman.
T}
\&.LP	yes	\-	Same as .PP
\&.PD \fId\fR	no	\fId\fR\^=\^.4v	T{
Interparagraph distance is \fId\fR.
T}
\&.PP	yes	\-	T{
Begin paragraph. Set prevailing indent to .5i.
T}
\&.RE	yes	\-	T{
End of relative indent. Set prevailing indent to
amount of starting .RS
T}
\&.RB \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR\^=\^n.t.l.	T{
Join words of \fIt\fR alternating Roman and bold.
T}
\&.RI \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR\^=\^n.t.l.	T{
Join words of \fIt\fR alternating Roman and italic.
T}
\&.RS \fIi\fR	no	\fIi\fR\^=\^p.i.	T{
Start relative indent, move left margin distance \fIi\fR.
Set prevailing indent to .5i for nested indents.
T}
\&.SH \fIt\fR	yes	\fIt\fR\^=\^n.t.l.	Subhead
\&.SM \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR\^=\^n.t.l.	Text \fIt\fR is small.
\&.TH \fIn c s v m\fR	yes	\-	T{
Begin page named \fIn\fR of chapter \fIc\fR; \fIx\fR is extra commentary,
e.g., 'local', for page foot center; \fIv\fR alters page foot left,
e.g. '4th Berkeley Distribution; \fIm\fR alters page head center, e.g.,
\&'Brand X Programmer's Manual'. Set prevailing indent and tabs to .5i.
T}
\&.TP \fIi\fR	yes	\fIi\fR\^=\^p.i.	T{
Set prevailing indent to \fIi\fR. Begin indented paragraph with hanging tag
given by next test line. If tag doesn't fit, place it on separate line.
T}
.TE
* n.t.l. = next text line; p.i. = prevailing indent
.NXQ(t) "man maco package" "requests"
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.an
.SH SEE ALSO
man(1), troff(1)
.NXQ "man macro package"
.NXQ "manual" "formatting"
